trident-managing-k8s/upgrade-operator.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-managing-k8s/upgrade-operator.html
keywords: upgrade, trident, methods, operator, tridentctl, helm
summary: You can easily upgrade an existing Astra Trident installation by using the operator.
---

= Upgrade a Trident operator installation
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can upgrade Astra Trident using the Trident operator either manually or using Helm. You can upgrade from a Trident operator installation to another Trident operator installation or upgrade from a `tridentctl` installation to a Trident operator version. Review link:upgrade-trident.html#select-an-upgrade-method[Select an upgrade method] before upgrading a Trident operator installation.  

== Upgrade a manual installation
You can upgrade from a cluster-scoped Trident operator installation to another cluster-scoped Trident operator installation. All Astra Trident versions 21.01 and above use a cluster-scoped operator.

NOTE: To upgrade from Astra Trident that was installed using the namespace-scoped operator (versions 20.07 through 20.10), use the upgrade instructions for link:../earlier-versions.html[your installed version] of Astra Trident.

.About this task
Trident provides a bundle file you can use to install the operator and create associated objects for your Kubernetes version.

* For clusters running Kubernetes 1.24 or earlier, use link:https://github.com/NetApp/trident/tree/stable/v23.10/deploy/bundle_pre_1_25.yaml[bundle_pre_1_25.yaml^].

* For clusters running Kubernetes 1.25 or later, use link:https://github.com/NetApp/trident/tree/stable/v23.10/deploy/bundle_post_1_25.yaml[bundle_post_1_25.yaml^].

.Before you begin
Ensure you are using a Kubernetes cluster running link:../trident-get-started/requirements.html[a supported Kubernetes version].

.Steps
. Verify your Astra Trident version:
+
----
./tridentctl -n trident version
----
. Delete the Trident operator that was used to install the current Astra Trident instance. For example, if you are upgrading from 23.07, run the following command:
+
----
kubectl delete -f 23.07.0/trident-installer/deploy/<bundle.yaml> -n trident
----
. If you customized your initial installation using `TridentOrchestrator` attributes, you can edit the `TridentOrchestrator` object to modify the installation parameters. This might include changes made to specify mirrored Trident and CSI image registries for offline mode, enable debug logs, or specify image pull secrets.
. Install Astra Trident using the correct bundle YAML file for your environment, where _<bundle.yaml>_ is
`bundle_pre_1_25.yaml` or `bundle_post_1_25.yaml` based on your Kubernetes version. For example, if you are installing Astra Trident 23.10, run the following command:
+
----
kubectl create -f 23.10.0/trident-installer/deploy/<bundle.yaml> -n trident
----

== Upgrade a Helm installation
You can upgrade an Astra Trident Helm installation.  

WARNING: When upgrading a Kubernetes cluster from 1.24 to 1.25 or later that has Astra Trident installed, you must update values.yaml to set `excludePodSecurityPolicy` to `true` or add `--set excludePodSecurityPolicy=true` to the `helm upgrade` command before you can upgrade the cluster.

.Steps
. Download the latest Astra Trident release.
. Use the `helm upgrade` command where `trident-operator-23.10.0.tgz` reflects the version that you want to upgrade to.
+
----
helm upgrade <name> trident-operator-23.10.0.tgz
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If you set any non-default options during the initial installation (such as specifying private, mirrored registries for Trident and CSI images), use `--set` to ensure those options are included in the upgrade command, otherwise the values will reset to default. 

For example, to change the default value of `tridentDebug`, run the following command:
----
helm upgrade <name> trident-operator-23.10.0-custom.tgz --set tridentDebug=true
----
====

. Run `helm list` to verify that the chart and app version have both been upgraded. Run `tridentctl logs` to review any debug messages.

== Upgrade from a `tridentctl` installation to Trident operator
You can upgrade to the latest release of the Trident operator from a `tridentctl` installation. The existing backends and PVCs will automatically be available.

NOTE: Before switching between installation methods, review link:../trident-get-started/kubernetes-deploy.html#moving-between-installation-methods[Moving between installation methods]

.Steps
. Download the latest Astra Trident release.
+
----
# Download the release required [23.10.0]
mkdir 23.10.0
cd 23.10.0
wget https://github.com/NetApp/trident/releases/download/v22.01.1/trident-installer-23.10.0.tar.gz
tar -xf trident-installer-23.10.0.tar.gz
cd trident-installer
----

. Create the `tridentorchestrator` CRD from the manifest.
+
----
kubectl create -f deploy/crds/trident.netapp.io_tridentorchestrators_crd_post1.16.yaml
----

. Deploy the cluster-scoped operator in the same namespace. 
+
----
kubectl create -f deploy/<bundle-name.yaml>

serviceaccount/trident-operator created
clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/trident-operator created
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/trident-operator created
deployment.apps/trident-operator created
podsecuritypolicy.policy/tridentoperatorpods created

#Examine the pods in the Trident namespace
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
trident-controller-79df798bdc-m79dc   6/6     Running   0          150d
trident-node-linux-xrst8              2/2     Running   0          150d
trident-operator-5574dbbc68-nthjv     1/1     Running   0          1m30s
----

. Create a `TridentOrchestrator` CR for installing Astra Trident.
+
----
cat deploy/crds/tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident

kubectl create -f deploy/crds/tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml

#Examine the pods in the Trident namespace
NAME                                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
trident-csi-79df798bdc-m79dc        6/6     Running   0          1m
trident-csi-xrst8                   2/2     Running   0          1m
trident-operator-5574dbbc68-nthjv   1/1     Running   0          5m41s
----
. Confirm Trident was upgraded to the intended version.
+
----
kubectl describe torc trident | grep Message -A 3

Message:                Trident installed
Namespace:              trident
Status:                 Installed
Version:                v23.10.0
----

Commit message:

added one step upgrade command for Helm

trident-managing-k8s/upgrade-operator.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-managing-k8s/upgrade-operator.html
keywords: upgrade, trident, methods, operator, tridentctl, helm
summary: You can easily upgrade an existing Astra Trident installation by using the operator.
---

= Upgrade a Trident operator installation
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can upgrade Astra Trident using the Trident operator either manually or using Helm. You can upgrade from a Trident operator installation to another Trident operator installation or upgrade from a `tridentctl` installation to a Trident operator version. Review link:upgrade-trident.html#select-an-upgrade-method[Select an upgrade method] before upgrading a Trident operator installation.  

== Upgrade a manual installation
You can upgrade from a cluster-scoped Trident operator installation to another cluster-scoped Trident operator installation. All Astra Trident versions 21.01 and above use a cluster-scoped operator.

NOTE: To upgrade from Astra Trident that was installed using the namespace-scoped operator (versions 20.07 through 20.10), use the upgrade instructions for link:../earlier-versions.html[your installed version] of Astra Trident.

.About this task
Trident provides a bundle file you can use to install the operator and create associated objects for your Kubernetes version.

* For clusters running Kubernetes 1.24 or earlier, use link:https://github.com/NetApp/trident/tree/stable/v23.10/deploy/bundle_pre_1_25.yaml[bundle_pre_1_25.yaml^].

* For clusters running Kubernetes 1.25 or later, use link:https://github.com/NetApp/trident/tree/stable/v23.10/deploy/bundle_post_1_25.yaml[bundle_post_1_25.yaml^].

.Before you begin
Ensure you are using a Kubernetes cluster running link:../trident-get-started/requirements.html[a supported Kubernetes version].

.Steps
. Verify your Astra Trident version:
+
----
./tridentctl -n trident version
----
. Delete the Trident operator that was used to install the current Astra Trident instance. For example, if you are upgrading from 23.07, run the following command:
+
----
kubectl delete -f 23.07.0/trident-installer/deploy/<bundle.yaml> -n trident
----
. If you customized your initial installation using `TridentOrchestrator` attributes, you can edit the `TridentOrchestrator` object to modify the installation parameters. This might include changes made to specify mirrored Trident and CSI image registries for offline mode, enable debug logs, or specify image pull secrets.
. Install Astra Trident using the correct bundle YAML file for your environment, where _<bundle.yaml>_ is
`bundle_pre_1_25.yaml` or `bundle_post_1_25.yaml` based on your Kubernetes version. For example, if you are installing Astra Trident 23.10, run the following command:
+
----
kubectl create -f 23.10.0/trident-installer/deploy/<bundle.yaml> -n trident
----

== Upgrade a Helm installation
You can upgrade an Astra Trident Helm installation.  

WARNING: When upgrading a Kubernetes cluster from 1.24 to 1.25 or later that has Astra Trident installed, you must update values.yaml to set `excludePodSecurityPolicy` to `true` or add `--set excludePodSecurityPolicy=true` to the `helm upgrade` command before you can upgrade the cluster.

.Steps
. If you link:../trident-get-started/kubernetes-deploy-helm.html#deploy-the-trident-operator-and-install-astra-trident-using-helm[installed Astra Trident using Helm], you can use `helm upgrade trident netapp-trident/trident-operator --version 23.10.0` to upgrade in one step. If you did not add the Helm repo or cannot use it to upgrade:

.. Download the latest Astra Trident release from link:https://github.com/NetApp/trident/releases/latest[the _Assets_ section on GitHub^]. 
.. Use the `helm upgrade` command where `trident-operator-23.10.0.tgz` reflects the version that you want to upgrade to.
+
----
helm upgrade <name> trident-operator-23.10.0.tgz
----
NOTE: If you set custom options during the initial installation (such as specifying private, mirrored registries for Trident and CSI images), append the `helm upgrade` command using `--set` to ensure those options are included in the upgrade command, otherwise the values will reset to default. 
. Run `helm list` to verify that the chart and app version have both been upgraded. Run `tridentctl logs` to review any debug messages.

== Upgrade from a `tridentctl` installation to Trident operator
You can upgrade to the latest release of the Trident operator from a `tridentctl` installation. The existing backends and PVCs will automatically be available.

NOTE: Before switching between installation methods, review link:../trident-get-started/kubernetes-deploy.html#moving-between-installation-methods[Moving between installation methods]

.Steps
. Download the latest Astra Trident release.
+
----
# Download the release required [23.10.0]
mkdir 23.10.0
cd 23.10.0
wget https://github.com/NetApp/trident/releases/download/v22.01.1/trident-installer-23.10.0.tar.gz
tar -xf trident-installer-23.10.0.tar.gz
cd trident-installer
----

. Create the `tridentorchestrator` CRD from the manifest.
+
----
kubectl create -f deploy/crds/trident.netapp.io_tridentorchestrators_crd_post1.16.yaml
----

. Deploy the cluster-scoped operator in the same namespace. 
+
----
kubectl create -f deploy/<bundle-name.yaml>

serviceaccount/trident-operator created
clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/trident-operator created
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/trident-operator created
deployment.apps/trident-operator created
podsecuritypolicy.policy/tridentoperatorpods created

#Examine the pods in the Trident namespace
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
trident-controller-79df798bdc-m79dc   6/6     Running   0          150d
trident-node-linux-xrst8              2/2     Running   0          150d
trident-operator-5574dbbc68-nthjv     1/1     Running   0          1m30s
----

. Create a `TridentOrchestrator` CR for installing Astra Trident.
+
----
cat deploy/crds/tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident

kubectl create -f deploy/crds/tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml

#Examine the pods in the Trident namespace
NAME                                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
trident-csi-79df798bdc-m79dc        6/6     Running   0          1m
trident-csi-xrst8                   2/2     Running   0          1m
trident-operator-5574dbbc68-nthjv   1/1     Running   0          5m41s
----
. Confirm Trident was upgraded to the intended version.
+
----
kubectl describe torc trident | grep Message -A 3

Message:                Trident installed
Namespace:              trident
Status:                 Installed
Version:                v23.10.0
----
