trident-use/anf-examples.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/anf-examples.html
keywords: trident backend, azure netapp files, smb volumes, smb, windows
summary: Learn about NFS and SMB backend configuration options for Azure NetApp Files and review configuration examples.
---

= Azure NetApp Files backend configuration options and examples
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Learn about NFS and SMB backend configuration options for Azure NetApp Files and review configuration examples. 

== Backend configuration options
Astra Trident uses your backend configuration (subnet, virtual network, service level, and location), to create Azure NetApp Files volumes on capacity pools that are available in the requested location and match the requested service level and subnet.

NOTE: Astra Trident does not support Manual QoS capacity pools.

Azure NetApp Files backends provide these configuration options. 

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`version` | |Always 1

|`storageDriverName` | Name of the storage driver |"azure-netapp-files"

|`backendName`  |Custom name or the storage backend |Driver name + "_" + random characters

|`subscriptionID` |The subscription ID from your Azure subscription 

Optional when managed identities is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`tenantID` |The tenant ID from an App Registration

Optional when managed identities is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`clientID` |The client ID from an App Registration

Optional when managed identities is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`clientSecret` |The client secret from an App Registration

Optional when managed identities is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`serviceLevel` |One of `Standard`, `Premium`, or `Ultra` |"" (random)

|`location` |Name of the Azure location where the new volumes will be created 

Optional when managed identities is enabled on an AKS cluster.|

|`resourceGroups` |List of resource groups for filtering discovered resources |"[]" (no filter)

|`netappAccounts` |List of NetApp accounts for filtering discovered resources |"[]" (no filter)

|`capacityPools` |List of capacity pools for filtering discovered resources |"[]" (no filter, random)

|`virtualNetwork` |Name of a virtual network with a delegated subnet |""

|`subnet` |Name of a subnet delegated to `Microsoft.Netapp/volumes` |""

|`networkFeatures` |Set of VNet features for a volume, may be `Basic` or `Standard`. 

Network Features is not available in all regions and might have to be enabled in a subscription. Specifying  `networkFeatures`  when the functionality is not enabled causes volume provisioning to fail. |""

|`nfsMountOptions` |Fine-grained control of NFS mount options. 

Ignored for SMB volumes. 

To mount volumes using NFS version 4.1, include  `nfsvers=4`  in the comma-delimited mount options list to choose NFS v4.1.

Mount options set in a storage class definition override mount options set in backend configuration. |"nfsvers=3" 

|`limitVolumeSize`  |Fail provisioning if the requested volume size is above this value |"" (not enforced by default)

|`debugTraceFlags` |Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example, `\{"api": false, "method": true, "discovery": true}`. Do not use this unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump. |null

| `nasType` | Configure NFS or SMB volumes creation. 

Options are `nfs`, `smb` or null. Setting to null defaults to NFS volumes. | `nfs` 

|===

[NOTE]
For more information on Network Features, refer to link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/configure-network-features[Configure network features for an Azure NetApp Files volume^].

=== Required permissions and resources

If you receive a “No capacity pools found” error when creating a PVC, it is likely your app registration doesn't have the required permissions and resources (subnet, virtual network, capacity pool) associated. If debug is enabled, Astra Trident will log the Azure resources discovered when the backend is created. Verify an appropriate role is being used.

The values for `resourceGroups`, `netappAccounts`, `capacityPools`, `virtualNetwork`, and `subnet` can be specified using short or fully-qualified names. Fully-qualified names are recommended in most situations as short names can match multiple resources with the same name.  

The `resourceGroups`, `netappAccounts`, and `capacityPools` values are filters that restrict the set of discovered resources to those available to this storage backend and may be specified in any combination. Fully-qualified names follow this format:

[cols=2,options="header"]
|===
|Type |Format
|Resource group |<resource group>
|NetApp account |<resource group>/<netapp account>
|Capacity pool |<resource group>/<netapp account>/<capacity pool>
|Virtual network |<resource group>/<virtual network>
|Subnet |<resource group>/<virtual network>/<subnet>
|===

=== Volume provisioning 
You can control default volume provisioning by specifying the following options in a special section of the configuration file. Refer to <<Example configurations>> for details.

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`exportRule` |Export rules for new volumes. 

`exportRule` must be a comma-separated list of any combination of IPv4 addresses or IPv4 subnets in CIDR notation.

Ignored for SMB volumes. |"0.0.0.0/0"

|`snapshotDir` |Controls visibility of the .snapshot directory |"false"

|`size` |The default size of new volumes |"100G"

|`unixPermissions` |The unix permissions of new volumes (4 octal digits). 

Ignored for SMB volumes.  |"" (preview feature, requires whitelisting in subscription)
|===

== Example configurations
The following examples show basic configurations that leave most parameters to default. This is the easiest way to define a backend.

.Minimal configuration
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This is the absolute minimum backend configuration. With this configuration, Astra Trident discovers all of your NetApp accounts, capacity pools, and subnets delegated to Azure NetApp Files in the configured location, and places new volumes on one of those pools and subnets randomly. Because `nasType` is omitted, the `nfs` default applies and the backend will provision for NFS volumes. 

This configuration is ideal when you are just getting started with Azure NetApp Files and trying things out, but in practice you are going to want to provide additional scoping for the volumes you provision. 

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
----
====

.Managed identities for AKS
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration omits `subscriptionID`, `tenantID`, `clientID`, and `clientSecret`, which are optional when using managed identities.

----
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentBackendConfig
metadata:
  name: backend-tbc-anf-1
  namespace: trident
spec:
  version: 1
  storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files 
  capacityPools: ["ultra-pool"]
  resourceGroups: ["aks-ami-eastus-rg"]
  netappAccounts: ["smb-na"]
  virtualNetwork: eastus-prod-vnet
  subnet: eastus-anf-subnet
----
====

.Specific service level configuration with capacity pool filters
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration places volumes in Azure's `eastus` location in an `Ultra` capacity pool. Astra Trident automatically discovers all of the subnets delegated to Azure NetApp Files in that location and places a new volume on one of them randomly.

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
serviceLevel: Ultra
capacityPools:
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-1
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-2
----
====

.Advanced configuration
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration further reduces the scope of volume placement to a single subnet, and also modifies some volume provisioning defaults.

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
serviceLevel: Ultra
capacityPools:
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-1
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-2
virtualNetwork: my-virtual-network
subnet: my-subnet
networkFeatures: Standard
nfsMountOptions: vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600
limitVolumeSize: 500Gi
defaults:
  exportRule: 10.0.0.0/24,10.0.1.0/24,10.0.2.100
  snapshotDir: 'true'
  size: 200Gi
  unixPermissions: '0777'

----
====

.Virtual pool configuration
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration defines multiple storage pools in a single file. This is useful when you have multiple capacity pools supporting different service levels and you want to create storage classes in Kubernetes that represent those. Virtual pool labels were used to differentiate the pools based on `performance`. 

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
resourceGroups:
- application-group-1
networkFeatures: Basic
nfsMountOptions: vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600
labels:
  cloud: azure
storage:
- labels:
    performance: gold
  serviceLevel: Ultra
  capacityPools:
  - ultra-1
  - ultra-2
  networkFeatures: Standard
- labels:
    performance: silver
  serviceLevel: Premium
  capacityPools:
  - premium-1
- labels:
    performance: bronze
  serviceLevel: Standard
  capacityPools:
  - standard-1
  - standard-2

----
====


== Storage Class definitions 
The following `StorageClass` definitions refer to the storage pools above. 

=== Example definitions using `parameter.selector` field
Using `parameter.selector` you can specify for each `StorageClass` the virtual pool that is used to host a volume. The volume will have the aspects defined in the chosen pool.

----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: gold
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=gold"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: silver
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=silver"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: bronze
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=bronze"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

=== Example definitions for SMB volumes
Using `nasType`, `node-stage-secret-name`, and  `node-stage-secret-namespace`, you can specify an SMB volume and provide the required Active Directory credentials. 

.Basic configuration on default namespace 
[%collapsible%closed]
====

----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: anf-sc-smb
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "azure-netapp-files"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb" 
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "smbcreds"  
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: "default"

----
====

.Using different secrets per namespace
[%collapsible%closed]
====
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: anf-sc-smb
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "azure-netapp-files"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "smbcreds"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
----
====

.Using different secrets per volume
[%collapsible%closed]
====
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: anf-sc-smb
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "azure-netapp-files"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: ${pvc.name}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
----
====

[NOTE]
`nasType: smb` filters for pools which support SMB volumes. `nasType: nfs` or `nasType: null` filters for NFS pools.

== Create the backend

After you create the backend configuration file, run the following command:

----
tridentctl create backend -f <backend-file>
----

If the backend creation fails, something is wrong with the backend configuration. You can view the logs to determine the cause by running the following command:

----
tridentctl logs
----

After you identify and correct the problem with the configuration file, you can run the create command again.

Commit message:

Deepa: Updated information for cloud identity management

trident-use/anf-examples.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/anf-examples.html
keywords: trident backend, azure netapp files, smb volumes, smb, windows
summary: Learn about NFS and SMB backend configuration options for Azure NetApp Files and review configuration examples.
---

= Azure NetApp Files backend configuration options and examples
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Learn about NFS and SMB backend configuration options for Azure NetApp Files and review configuration examples. 

== Backend configuration options
Astra Trident uses your backend configuration (subnet, virtual network, service level, and location), to create Azure NetApp Files volumes on capacity pools that are available in the requested location and match the requested service level and subnet.

NOTE: Astra Trident does not support Manual QoS capacity pools.

Azure NetApp Files backends provide these configuration options. 

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`version` | |Always 1

|`storageDriverName` | Name of the storage driver |"azure-netapp-files"

|`backendName`  |Custom name or the storage backend |Driver name + "_" + random characters

|`subscriptionID` |The subscription ID from your Azure subscription 

Optional when managed identities is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`tenantID` |The tenant ID from an App Registration

Optional when managed identities or cloud identity is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`clientID` |The client ID from an App Registration

Optional when managed identities or cloud identity is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`clientSecret` |The client secret from an App Registration

Optional when managed identities or cloud identity is enabled on an AKS cluster. |

|`serviceLevel` |One of `Standard`, `Premium`, or `Ultra` |"" (random)

|`location` |Name of the Azure location where the new volumes will be created 

Optional when managed identities is enabled on an AKS cluster.|

|`resourceGroups` |List of resource groups for filtering discovered resources |"[]" (no filter)

|`netappAccounts` |List of NetApp accounts for filtering discovered resources |"[]" (no filter)

|`capacityPools` |List of capacity pools for filtering discovered resources |"[]" (no filter, random)

|`virtualNetwork` |Name of a virtual network with a delegated subnet |""

|`subnet` |Name of a subnet delegated to `Microsoft.Netapp/volumes` |""

|`networkFeatures` |Set of VNet features for a volume, may be `Basic` or `Standard`. 

Network Features is not available in all regions and might have to be enabled in a subscription. Specifying  `networkFeatures`  when the functionality is not enabled causes volume provisioning to fail. |""

|`nfsMountOptions` |Fine-grained control of NFS mount options. 

Ignored for SMB volumes. 

To mount volumes using NFS version 4.1, include  `nfsvers=4`  in the comma-delimited mount options list to choose NFS v4.1.

Mount options set in a storage class definition override mount options set in backend configuration. |"nfsvers=3" 

|`limitVolumeSize`  |Fail provisioning if the requested volume size is above this value |"" (not enforced by default)

|`debugTraceFlags` |Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example, `\{"api": false, "method": true, "discovery": true}`. Do not use this unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump. |null

| `nasType` | Configure NFS or SMB volumes creation. 

Options are `nfs`, `smb` or null. Setting to null defaults to NFS volumes. | `nfs` 

|===

[NOTE]
For more information on Network Features, refer to link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/configure-network-features[Configure network features for an Azure NetApp Files volume^].

=== Required permissions and resources

If you receive a “No capacity pools found” error when creating a PVC, it is likely your app registration doesn't have the required permissions and resources (subnet, virtual network, capacity pool) associated. If debug is enabled, Astra Trident will log the Azure resources discovered when the backend is created. Verify an appropriate role is being used.

The values for `resourceGroups`, `netappAccounts`, `capacityPools`, `virtualNetwork`, and `subnet` can be specified using short or fully-qualified names. Fully-qualified names are recommended in most situations as short names can match multiple resources with the same name.  

The `resourceGroups`, `netappAccounts`, and `capacityPools` values are filters that restrict the set of discovered resources to those available to this storage backend and may be specified in any combination. Fully-qualified names follow this format:

[cols=2,options="header"]
|===
|Type |Format
|Resource group |<resource group>
|NetApp account |<resource group>/<netapp account>
|Capacity pool |<resource group>/<netapp account>/<capacity pool>
|Virtual network |<resource group>/<virtual network>
|Subnet |<resource group>/<virtual network>/<subnet>
|===

=== Volume provisioning 
You can control default volume provisioning by specifying the following options in a special section of the configuration file. Refer to <<Example configurations>> for details.

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`exportRule` |Export rules for new volumes. 

`exportRule` must be a comma-separated list of any combination of IPv4 addresses or IPv4 subnets in CIDR notation.

Ignored for SMB volumes. |"0.0.0.0/0"

|`snapshotDir` |Controls visibility of the .snapshot directory |"false"

|`size` |The default size of new volumes |"100G"

|`unixPermissions` |The unix permissions of new volumes (4 octal digits). 

Ignored for SMB volumes.  |"" (preview feature, requires whitelisting in subscription)
|===

== Example configurations
The following examples show basic configurations that leave most parameters to default. This is the easiest way to define a backend.

.Minimal configuration
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This is the absolute minimum backend configuration. With this configuration, Astra Trident discovers all of your NetApp accounts, capacity pools, and subnets delegated to Azure NetApp Files in the configured location, and places new volumes on one of those pools and subnets randomly. Because `nasType` is omitted, the `nfs` default applies and the backend will provision for NFS volumes. 

This configuration is ideal when you are just getting started with Azure NetApp Files and trying things out, but in practice you are going to want to provide additional scoping for the volumes you provision. 

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
----
====

.Managed identities for AKS
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration omits `subscriptionID`, `tenantID`, `clientID`, and `clientSecret`, which are optional when using managed identities.

----
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentBackendConfig
metadata:
  name: backend-tbc-anf-1
  namespace: trident
spec:
  version: 1
  storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files 
  capacityPools: ["ultra-pool"]
  resourceGroups: ["aks-ami-eastus-rg"]
  netappAccounts: ["smb-na"]
  virtualNetwork: eastus-prod-vnet
  subnet: eastus-anf-subnet
----
====

.Cloud identities for AKS
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration omits `tenantID`, `clientID`, and `clientSecret`, which are optional when using a cloud identity.

----
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentBackendConfig
metadata:
  name: backend-tbc-anf-1
  namespace: trident
spec:
  version: 1
  storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files 
  capacityPools: ["ultra-pool"]
  resourceGroups: ["aks-ami-eastus-rg"]
  netappAccounts: ["smb-na"]
  virtualNetwork: eastus-prod-vnet
  subnet: eastus-anf-subnet
  location: westus2
  subscriptionID: d7a8de29-b829-45c0-b898-2cbafd35e3a3
----
====

.Specific service level configuration with capacity pool filters
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration places volumes in Azure's `eastus` location in an `Ultra` capacity pool. Astra Trident automatically discovers all of the subnets delegated to Azure NetApp Files in that location and places a new volume on one of them randomly.

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
serviceLevel: Ultra
capacityPools:
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-1
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-2
----
====

.Advanced configuration
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration further reduces the scope of volume placement to a single subnet, and also modifies some volume provisioning defaults.

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
serviceLevel: Ultra
capacityPools:
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-1
- application-group-1/account-1/ultra-2
virtualNetwork: my-virtual-network
subnet: my-subnet
networkFeatures: Standard
nfsMountOptions: vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600
limitVolumeSize: 500Gi
defaults:
  exportRule: 10.0.0.0/24,10.0.1.0/24,10.0.2.100
  snapshotDir: 'true'
  size: 200Gi
  unixPermissions: '0777'

----
====

.Virtual pool configuration
[%collapsible%closed]
====
This backend configuration defines multiple storage pools in a single file. This is useful when you have multiple capacity pools supporting different service levels and you want to create storage classes in Kubernetes that represent those. Virtual pool labels were used to differentiate the pools based on `performance`. 

----
---
version: 1
storageDriverName: azure-netapp-files
subscriptionID: 9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451
tenantID: 68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf
clientID: dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa
clientSecret: SECRET
location: eastus
resourceGroups:
- application-group-1
networkFeatures: Basic
nfsMountOptions: vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600
labels:
  cloud: azure
storage:
- labels:
    performance: gold
  serviceLevel: Ultra
  capacityPools:
  - ultra-1
  - ultra-2
  networkFeatures: Standard
- labels:
    performance: silver
  serviceLevel: Premium
  capacityPools:
  - premium-1
- labels:
    performance: bronze
  serviceLevel: Standard
  capacityPools:
  - standard-1
  - standard-2

----
====


== Storage Class definitions 
The following `StorageClass` definitions refer to the storage pools above. 

=== Example definitions using `parameter.selector` field
Using `parameter.selector` you can specify for each `StorageClass` the virtual pool that is used to host a volume. The volume will have the aspects defined in the chosen pool.

----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: gold
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=gold"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: silver
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=silver"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: bronze
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=bronze"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

=== Example definitions for SMB volumes
Using `nasType`, `node-stage-secret-name`, and  `node-stage-secret-namespace`, you can specify an SMB volume and provide the required Active Directory credentials. 

.Basic configuration on default namespace 
[%collapsible%closed]
====

----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: anf-sc-smb
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "azure-netapp-files"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb" 
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "smbcreds"  
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: "default"

----
====

.Using different secrets per namespace
[%collapsible%closed]
====
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: anf-sc-smb
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "azure-netapp-files"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "smbcreds"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
----
====

.Using different secrets per volume
[%collapsible%closed]
====
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: anf-sc-smb
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "azure-netapp-files"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: ${pvc.name}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
----
====

[NOTE]
`nasType: smb` filters for pools which support SMB volumes. `nasType: nfs` or `nasType: null` filters for NFS pools.

== Create the backend

After you create the backend configuration file, run the following command:

----
tridentctl create backend -f <backend-file>
----

If the backend creation fails, something is wrong with the backend configuration. You can view the logs to determine the cause by running the following command:

----
tridentctl logs
----

After you identify and correct the problem with the configuration file, you can run the create command again.
