trident-use/anf.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/anf.html
keywords: trident backend, azure netapp files, smb volumes, smb, windows, drivers, access modes, rwo, rwx, rwp, rwop, file system, aks, managed identities, azure
summary: You can configure Azure NetApp Files as the backend for Astra Trident. You can attach NFS and SMB volumes using an Azure NetApp Files backend. Astra Trident also supports credential management using managed identities for Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS) clusters.
---

= Configure an Azure NetApp Files backend
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can configure Azure NetApp Files as the backend for Astra Trident. You can attach NFS and SMB volumes using an Azure NetApp Files backend. Astra Trident also supports credential management using managed identities for Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS) clusters.

== Azure NetApp Files driver details
Astra Trident provides the following Azure NetApp Files storage drivers to communicate with the cluster. Supported access modes are: _ReadWriteOnce_ (RWO), _ReadOnlyMany_ (ROX), _ReadWriteMany_ (RWX), _ReadWriteOncePod_ (RWOP).

[cols="2, 1, 1, 2, 2", options="header"]
|===
|Driver
|Protocol
|volumeMode
|Access modes supported
|File systems supported

|`azure-netapp-files`
a|NFS
SMB
a|Filesystem
a|RWO, ROX, RWX, RWOP
a|`nfs`, `smb`

|===

=== Considerations

* The Azure NetApp Files service does not support volumes smaller than 100 GB. Astra Trident automatically creates 100-GB volumes if a smaller volume is requested.

* Astra Trident supports SMB volumes mounted to pods running on Windows nodes only.

== Managed identities for AKS
Astra Trident supports link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[managed identities^] for Azure Kubernetes Services clusters. To take advantage of streamlined credential management offered by managed identities, you must have: 

* A Kubernetes cluster deployed using AKS
* Managed identities configured on the AKS kubernetes cluster
* Astra Trident installed that includes the `cloudProvider` to specify `"Azure"`. 
+
[role="tabbed-block"]
====
.Trident operator
--
To install Astra Trident using the Trident operator, edit `tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml` to set `cloudProvider` to `"Azure"`. For example:
----
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident
  imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  cloudProvider: "Azure"
----
--

.Helm
--
The following example installs Astra Trident sets `cloudProvider` to Azure using the environment variable `$CP`:
----
helm install trident trident-operator-23.10.0-custom.tgz --create-namespace --namespace <trident-namespace> --set cloudProvider=$CP
----
--

.`tridentctl`
--
The following example installs Astra Trident sets set the `cloudProvider` flag to `Azure`:
----
tridentctl install --cloud-provider="Azure" -n trident
----
--
====

== Cloud identities
Astra Trident supports link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[managed identities^] for Azure Kubernetes Services clusters. To take advantage of streamlined credential management offered by managed identities, you must have: 

* A Kubernetes cluster deployed using AKS
* Managed identities configured on the AKS kubernetes cluster
* Astra Trident installed that includes the `cloudProvider` to specify `"Azure"`. 
+
[role="tabbed-block"]
====
.Trident operator
--
To install Astra Trident using the Trident operator, edit `tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml` to set `cloudProvider` to `"Azure"`. For example:
----
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident
  imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  cloudProvider: "Azure"
  cloudIdentity: c732d273-7733-49bd-84bb-921aa5b18227
----
--

.Helm
--
The following example installs Astra Trident sets `cloudProvider` to Azure using the environment variable `$CP`:
----
helm install trident trident-operator-23.10.0-custom.tgz --create-namespace --namespace <trident-namespace> --set cloudProvider=$CP
----
--

.`tridentctl`
--
The following example installs Astra Trident sets set the `cloudProvider` flag to `Azure`:
----
tridentctl install --cloud-provider="Azure" --cloud-identity="$ANNOTATION" -n trident
----
--
====

Commit message:

Deepa: Updated information for cloud identity management

trident-use/anf.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/anf.html
keywords: trident backend, azure netapp files, smb volumes, smb, windows, drivers, access modes, rwo, rwx, rwp, rwop, file system, aks, managed identities, azure
summary: You can configure Azure NetApp Files as the backend for Astra Trident. You can attach NFS and SMB volumes using an Azure NetApp Files backend. Astra Trident also supports credential management using managed identities for Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS) clusters.
---

= Configure an Azure NetApp Files backend
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can configure Azure NetApp Files as the backend for Astra Trident. You can attach NFS and SMB volumes using an Azure NetApp Files backend. Astra Trident also supports credential management using managed identities for Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS) clusters.

== Azure NetApp Files driver details
Astra Trident provides the following Azure NetApp Files storage drivers to communicate with the cluster. Supported access modes are: _ReadWriteOnce_ (RWO), _ReadOnlyMany_ (ROX), _ReadWriteMany_ (RWX), _ReadWriteOncePod_ (RWOP).

[cols="2, 1, 1, 2, 2", options="header"]
|===
|Driver
|Protocol
|volumeMode
|Access modes supported
|File systems supported

|`azure-netapp-files`
a|NFS
SMB
a|Filesystem
a|RWO, ROX, RWX, RWOP
a|`nfs`, `smb`

|===

=== Considerations

* The Azure NetApp Files service does not support volumes smaller than 100 GB. Astra Trident automatically creates 100-GB volumes if a smaller volume is requested.

* Astra Trident supports SMB volumes mounted to pods running on Windows nodes only.

== Managed identities for AKS
Astra Trident supports link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[managed identities^] for Azure Kubernetes Services clusters. To take advantage of streamlined credential management offered by managed identities, you must have: 

* A Kubernetes cluster deployed using AKS
* Managed identities configured on the AKS kubernetes cluster
* Astra Trident installed that includes the `cloudProvider` to specify `"Azure"`. 
+
[role="tabbed-block"]
====
.Trident operator
--
To install Astra Trident using the Trident operator, edit `tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml` to set `cloudProvider` to `"Azure"`. For example:
----
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident
  imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  cloudProvider: "Azure"
----
--

.Helm
--
The following example installs Astra Trident sets `cloudProvider` to Azure using the environment variable `$CP`:
----
helm install trident trident-operator-23.10.0-custom.tgz --create-namespace --namespace <trident-namespace> --set cloudProvider=$CP
----
--

.`tridentctl`
--
The following example installs Astra Trident sets set the `cloudProvider` flag to `Azure`:
----
tridentctl install --cloud-provider="Azure" -n trident
----
--
====

== Cloud identities

Cloud identity Enables pods to use a Kubernetes identity (that is, a service account). It also enables Kubernetes applications to access Azure resources securely with Microsoft Entra ID based on annotated service accounts.

To take advantage of Kubernets identity, you must have:

* A Kubernetes cluster deployed using AKS
* Managed identities configured on the AKS kubernetes cluster
* Astra Trident installed that includes the `cloudProvider` to specify `"Azure"`.
+
[role="tabbed-block"]
====
.Trident operator
--
To install Astra Trident using the Trident operator, edit `tridentorchestrator_cr.yaml` to set `cloudProvider` to `"Azure"` and set 'cloudIdentity' to 'azure.workload.identity/client-id: xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxx'. For example:

----
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident
  imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  cloudProvider: "Azure"
  cloudIdentity: xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxx
----
--

.Helm
--
export CI="azure.workload.identity/client-id: xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxx".

The following example installs Astra Trident sets `cloudProvider` to Azure using the environment variable `$CP` and sets the 'cloudIdentity' using the environment variable '$CI':
----
helm install trident trident-operator-100.2402.0.tgz --set cloudProvider=$CP --set cloudIdentity=$CI
----
--

.`tridentctl`
--
export CP="Azure"
export CI="azure.workload.identity/client-id: xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxx".
The following example installs Astra Trident sets set the 'cloud-provider` flag to `$CP`, and 'cloud-identity' to $CI:
----
tridentctl install --cloud-provider=$CP --cloud-identity="$CI" -n trident
----
--
====
