trident-use/manage-stor-class.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/manage-stor-class.html
keywords: storage class, manage storage class, storage classes, kubernetes storage classes
summary: You can create a storage class, delete a storage class, and view existing storage classes.
---

= Manage storage classes
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Find information about creating a storage class, deleting a storage class, and viewing existing storage classes.

== Design a storage class

See link:../trident-reference/objects.html[here^] for more information on what storage classes are and how you configure them.

== Create a storage class

After you have a storage class file, run the following command:
----
kubectl create -f <storage-class-file>
----
`<storage-class-file>` should be replaced with your storage class file name.

== Delete a storage class

To delete a storage class from Kubernetes, run the following command:
----
kubectl delete storageclass <storage-class>
----
`<storage-class>` should be replaced with your storage class.

Any persistent volumes that were created through this storage class will remain untouched, and Astra Trident will continue to manage them.

NOTE: Astra Trident enforces a blank `fsType` for the volumes it creates. For iSCSI backends, it is recommended to enforce `parameters.fsType` in the StorageClass. You should delete existing StorageClasses and re-create them with `parameters.fsType` specified.

== View the existing storage classes

* To view existing Kubernetes storage classes, run the following command:
----
kubectl get storageclass
----
* To view Kubernetes storage class detail, run the following command:
----
kubectl get storageclass <storage-class> -o json
----
* To view Astra Trident's synchronized storage classes, run the following command:
----
tridentctl get storageclass
----
* To view Astra Trident's synchronized storage class detail, run the following command:
----
tridentctl get storageclass <storage-class> -o json
----

== Set a default storage class

Kubernetes 1.6 added the ability to set a default storage class. This is the storage class that will be used to provision a Persistent Volume if a user does not specify one in a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC).

* Define a default storage class by setting the annotation `storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class` to true in the storage class definition. According to the specification, any other value or absence of the annotation is interpreted as false.
* You can configure an existing storage class to be the default storage class by using the following command:
----
kubectl patch storageclass <storage-class-name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
----
* Similarly, you can remove the default storage class annotation by using the following command:
----
kubectl patch storageclass <storage-class-name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"false"}}}'
----
There are also examples in the Trident installer bundle that include this annotation.

NOTE: You should only have one default storage class in your cluster at any given time. Kubernetes does not technically prevent you from having more than one, but it will behave as if there is no default storage class at all.

== Identify the backend for a storage class

This is an example of the kind of questions you can answer with the JSON that `tridentctl` outputs for Astra Trident backend objects. This uses the `jq` utility, which you may need to install first.
----
tridentctl get storageclass -o json | jq  '[.items[] | {storageClass: .Config.name, backends: [.storage]|unique}]'
----

Commit message:

lipi error updates; lead paras; index keyword

trident-use/manage-stor-class.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/manage-stor-class.html
keywords: storage class, manage storage class, storage classes, kubernetes storage classes
summary: You can create a storage class, delete a storage class, and view existing storage classes.
---

= Manage storage classes
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can create a storage class, delete a storage class, and view existing storage classes.

== Design a storage class

See link:../trident-reference/objects.html[here^] for more information on what storage classes are and how you configure them.

== Create a storage class

After you have a storage class file, run the following command:
----
kubectl create -f <storage-class-file>
----
`<storage-class-file>` should be replaced with your storage class file name.

== Delete a storage class

To delete a storage class from Kubernetes, run the following command:
----
kubectl delete storageclass <storage-class>
----
`<storage-class>` should be replaced with your storage class.

Any persistent volumes that were created through this storage class will remain untouched, and Astra Trident will continue to manage them.

NOTE: Astra Trident enforces a blank `fsType` for the volumes it creates. For iSCSI backends, it is recommended to enforce `parameters.fsType` in the StorageClass. You should delete existing StorageClasses and re-create them with `parameters.fsType` specified.

== View the existing storage classes

* To view existing Kubernetes storage classes, run the following command:
----
kubectl get storageclass
----
* To view Kubernetes storage class detail, run the following command:
----
kubectl get storageclass <storage-class> -o json
----
* To view Astra Trident's synchronized storage classes, run the following command:
----
tridentctl get storageclass
----
* To view Astra Trident's synchronized storage class detail, run the following command:
----
tridentctl get storageclass <storage-class> -o json
----

== Set a default storage class

Kubernetes 1.6 added the ability to set a default storage class. This is the storage class that will be used to provision a Persistent Volume if a user does not specify one in a Persistent Volume Claim (PVC).

* Define a default storage class by setting the annotation `storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class` to true in the storage class definition. According to the specification, any other value or absence of the annotation is interpreted as false.
* You can configure an existing storage class to be the default storage class by using the following command:
----
kubectl patch storageclass <storage-class-name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
----
* Similarly, you can remove the default storage class annotation by using the following command:
----
kubectl patch storageclass <storage-class-name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"false"}}}'
----
There are also examples in the Trident installer bundle that include this annotation.

NOTE: You should only have one default storage class in your cluster at any given time. Kubernetes does not technically prevent you from having more than one, but it will behave as if there is no default storage class at all.

== Identify the backend for a storage class

This is an example of the kind of questions you can answer with the JSON that `tridentctl` outputs for Astra Trident backend objects. This uses the `jq` utility, which you may need to install first.
----
tridentctl get storageclass -o json | jq  '[.items[] | {storageClass: .Config.name, backends: [.storage]|unique}]'
----
