trident-use/ontap-nas.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/ontap-nas.html
keywords: trident backend, ontap nas, ontap-nas, ontap-nas-economy, ontap-nas-flexgroups, fsx
summary: Learn about configuring an ONTAP backend with ONTAP NAS drivers.
---

= Configure an ONTAP NAS backend
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Learn about configuring an ONTAP backend with ONTAP and Cloud Volumes ONTAP NAS drivers.

* link:ontap-nas-prep.html[Preparation]
* link:ontap-nas-examples.html[Configuration and examples]


[WARNING]
====
Astra Control provides seamless protection, disaster recovery, and mobility (moving volumes between Kubernetes clusters) for volumes created with the `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, and `ontap-san` drivers. See link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/astra-control-center/use/replicate_snapmirror.html#replication-prerequisites[Astra Control replication prerequisites^] for details. 

* You must use `ontap-nas` for production workloads that require data protection, disaster recovery, and mobility. 
* Use `ontap-san-economy` when anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports. 
* Use `ontap-nas-economy` only where anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports, and the `ontap-san-economy` driver cannot be used. 
* Do not use use `ontap-nas-economy` if you anticipate the need for data protection, disaster recovery, or mobility.
====

== User permissions

Astra Trident expects to be run as either an ONTAP or SVM administrator, typically using the `admin` cluster user or a `vsadmin` SVM user, or a user with a different name that has the same role. For Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP deployments, Astra Trident expects to be run as either an ONTAP or SVM administrator, using the cluster `fsxadmin` user or a `vsadmin` SVM user, or a user with a different name that has the same role. The `fsxadmin` user is a limited replacement for the cluster admin user.

NOTE: If you use the `limitAggregateUsage` parameter, cluster admin permissions are required. When using Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP with Astra Trident, the `limitAggregateUsage` parameter will not work with the `vsadmin` and `fsxadmin` user accounts. The configuration operation will fail if you specify this parameter.

While it is possible to create a more restrictive role within ONTAP that a Trident driver can use, we don’t recommend it. Most new releases of Trident will call additional APIs that would have to be accounted for, making upgrades difficult and error-prone.

Commit message:

added limitation that NAS & SMB must be configured on ontap-nas-x

trident-use/ontap-nas.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/ontap-nas.html
keywords: trident backend, ontap nas, ontap-nas, ontap-nas-economy, ontap-nas-flexgroups, fsx
summary: Learn about configuring an ONTAP backend with ONTAP NAS drivers.
---

= ONTAP NAS driver overview
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Learn about configuring an ONTAP backend with ONTAP and Cloud Volumes ONTAP NAS drivers.

== Important information about ONTAP NAS drivers
Astra Control provides seamless protection, disaster recovery, and mobility (moving volumes between Kubernetes clusters) for volumes created with the `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, and `ontap-san` drivers. See link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/astra-control-center/use/replicate_snapmirror.html#replication-prerequisites[Astra Control replication prerequisites^] for details. 

* You must use `ontap-nas` for production workloads that require data protection, disaster recovery, and mobility. 
* Use `ontap-san-economy` when anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports. 
* Use `ontap-nas-economy` only where anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports, and the `ontap-san-economy` driver cannot be used. 
* Do not use use `ontap-nas-economy` if you anticipate the need for data protection, disaster recovery, or mobility.

== User permissions
Astra Trident expects to be run as either an ONTAP or SVM administrator, typically using the `admin` cluster user or a `vsadmin` SVM user, or a user with a different name that has the same role. For Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP deployments, Astra Trident expects to be run as either an ONTAP or SVM administrator, using the cluster `fsxadmin` user or a `vsadmin` SVM user, or a user with a different name that has the same role. The `fsxadmin` user is a limited replacement for the cluster admin user.

NOTE: If you use the `limitAggregateUsage` parameter, cluster admin permissions are required. When using Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP with Astra Trident, the `limitAggregateUsage` parameter will not work with the `vsadmin` and `fsxadmin` user accounts. The configuration operation will fail if you specify this parameter.

While it is possible to create a more restrictive role within ONTAP that a Trident driver can use, we don’t recommend it. Most new releases of Trident will call additional APIs that would have to be accounted for, making upgrades difficult and error-prone.

== Known limitations
You must configure both NFS and SMB/CIFS protocols on the SVM to create an `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-economy`, or `ontap-nas-flexgroup` volume. Failure to configure both will cause volume creation to fail.
