trident-use/ontap-nas-prep.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/ontap-nas-prep.html
keywords: trident backend, ontap nas, ontap-nas, ontap-nas-economy, ontap-nas-flexgroups
summary: Learn about how to prepare to configure an ONTAP backend with ONTAP NAS drivers.
---

= Preparation
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Learn about how to prepare to configure an ONTAP backend with ONTAP NAS drivers. For all ONTAP backends, Astra Trident requires at least one aggregate assigned to the SVM.

For all ONTAP backends, Astra Trident requires at least one aggregate assigned to the SVM.

Remember that you can also run more than one driver, and create storage classes that point to one or the other. For example, you could configure a Gold class that uses the `ontap-nas` driver and a Bronze class that uses the `ontap-nas-economy` one.

All of your Kubernetes worker nodes must have the appropriate NFS tools installed. See link:worker-node-prep.html[here^] for more details.

== Authentication

Astra Trident offers two modes of authenticating an ONTAP backend.

* Credential-based: The username and password to an ONTAP user with the required permissions. It is recommended to use a pre-defined security login role, such as `admin` or `vsadmin` to ensure maximum compatibility with ONTAP versions.
* Certificate-based: Astra Trident can also communicate with an ONTAP cluster using a certificate installed on the backend. Here, the backend definition must contain Base64-encoded values of the client certificate, key, and the trusted CA certificate if used (recommended).

Users can also choose to update existing backends, opting to move from credential-based to certificate-based, and vice-versa. If *both credentials and certificates are provided*, Astra Trident will default to using certificates while issuing a warning to remove the credentials from the backend definition.

=== Enable credential-based authentication

Astra Trident requires the credentials to an SVM-scoped/cluster-scoped admin to communicate with the ONTAP backend. It is recommended to make use of standard, pre-defined roles such as `admin` or `vsadmin`. This ensures forward compatibility with future ONTAP releases that might expose feature APIs to be used by future Astra Trident releases. A custom security login role can be created and used with Astra Trident, but is not recommended.

A sample backend definition will look like this:
----
{
  "version": 1,
  "backendName": "ExampleBackend",
  "storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
  "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
  "dataLIF": "10.0.0.2",
  "svm": "svm_nfs",
  "username": "vsadmin",
  "password": "secret"
}
----

Keep in mind that the backend definition is the only place the credentials are stored in plain text. After the backend is created, usernames/passwords are encoded with Base64 and stored as Kubernetes secrets. The creation/updation of a backend is the only step that requires knowledge of the credentials. As such, it is an admin-only operation, to be performed by the Kubernetes/storage administrator.

=== Enable certificate-based Authentication

New and existing backends can use a certificate and communicate with the ONTAP backend. Three parameters are required in the backend definition.

* clientCertificate: Base64-encoded value of client certificate.
* clientPrivateKey: Base64-encoded value of associated private key.
* trustedCACertificate: Base64-encoded value of trusted CA certificate. If using a trusted CA, this parameter must be provided. This can be ignored if no trusted CA is used.

A typical workflow involves the following steps.

.Steps

. Generate a client certificate and key. When generating, set Common Name (CN) to the ONTAP user to authenticate as.
+
----
openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 1095 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout k8senv.key -out k8senv.pem -subj "/C=US/ST=NC/L=RTP/O=NetApp/CN=vsadmin"
----
. Add trusted CA certificate to the ONTAP cluster. This might be already handled by the storage administrator. Ignore if no trusted CA is used.
+
----
security certificate install -type server -cert-name <trusted-ca-cert-name> -vserver <vserver-name>
ssl modify -vserver <vserver-name> -server-enabled true -client-enabled true -common-name <common-name> -serial <SN-from-trusted-CA-cert> -ca <cert-authority>
----
. Install the client certificate and key (from step 1) on the ONTAP cluster.
+
----
security certificate install -type client-ca -cert-name <certificate-name> -vserver <vserver-name>
security ssl modify -vserver <vserver-name> -client-enabled true
----
. Confirm the ONTAP security login role supports `cert` authentication method.
+
----
security login create -user-or-group-name vsadmin -application ontapi -authentication-method cert -vserver <vserver-name> 
security login create -user-or-group-name vsadmin -application http -authentication-method cert -vserver <vserver-name>
----
. Test authentication using certificate generated. Replace <ONTAP Management LIF> and <vserver name> with Management LIF IP and SVM name. You must ensure the LIF has its service policy set to `default-data-management`.
+
----
curl -X POST -Lk https://<ONTAP-Management-LIF>/servlets/netapp.servlets.admin.XMLrequest_filer --key k8senv.key --cert ~/k8senv.pem -d '<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><netapp xmlns="http://www.netapp.com/filer/admin" version="1.21" vfiler="<vserver-name>"><vserver-get></vserver-get></netapp>'
----
. Encode certificate, key and trusted CA certificate with Base64.
+
----
base64 -w 0 k8senv.pem >> cert_base64
base64 -w 0 k8senv.key >> key_base64
base64 -w 0 trustedca.pem >> trustedca_base64
----
. Create backend using the values obtained from the previous step.
+
----
$ cat cert-backend-updated.json
{
"version": 1,
"storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
"backendName": "NasBackend",
"managementLIF": "1.2.3.4",
"dataLIF": "1.2.3.8",
"svm": "vserver_test",
"clientCertificate": "Faaaakkkkeeee...Vaaalllluuuueeee",
"clientPrivateKey": "LS0tFaKE...0VaLuES0tLS0K",
"storagePrefix": "myPrefix_"
}

#Update backend with tridentctl
$ tridentctl update backend NasBackend -f cert-backend-updated.json -n trident
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|    NAME    | STORAGE DRIVER |                 UUID                 | STATE  | VOLUMES |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| NasBackend | ontap-nas      | 98e19b74-aec7-4a3d-8dcf-128e5033b214 | online |       9 |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

=== Update authentication methods or rotate credentials

You can update an existing backend to make use of a different authentication method or to rotate their credentials. This works both ways: backends that make use of username/password can be updated to use certificates; backends that utilize certificates can be updated to username/password based. To do this, use an updated `backend.json` file containing the required parameters to execute `tridentctl backend update`.
----
$ cat cert-backend-updated.json
{
"version": 1,
"storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
"backendName": "NasBackend",
"managementLIF": "1.2.3.4",
"dataLIF": "1.2.3.8",
"svm": "vserver_test",
"username": "vsadmin",
"password": "secret",
"storagePrefix": "myPrefix_"
}

#Update backend with tridentctl
$ tridentctl update backend NasBackend -f cert-backend-updated.json -n trident
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|    NAME    | STORAGE DRIVER |                 UUID                 | STATE  | VOLUMES |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| NasBackend | ontap-nas      | 98e19b74-aec7-4a3d-8dcf-128e5033b214 | online |       9 |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: When rotating passwords, the storage administrator must first update the password for the user on ONTAP. This is followed by a backend update. When rotating certificates, multiple certificates can be added to the user. The backend is then updated to use the new certificate, following which the old certificate can be deleted from the ONTAP cluster.

Updating a backend does not disrupt access to volumes that have already been created, nor impact volume connections made after. A successful backend update indicates that Astra Trident can communicate with the ONTAP backend and handle future volume operations.

== Manage NFS export policies

Astra Trident uses NFS export policies to control access to the volumes that it provisions.

Astra Trident provides two options when working with export policies:

* Astra Trident can dynamically manage the export policy itself; in this mode of operation, the storage administrator specifies a list of CIDR blocks that represent admissible IP addresses. Astra Trident adds node IPs that fall in these ranges to the export policy automatically. Alternatively, when no CIDRs are specified, any global-scoped unicast IP found on the nodes will be added to the export policy.
* Storage administrators can create an export policy and add rules manually. Astra Trident uses the default export policy unless a different export policy name is specified in the configuration.

=== Dynamically manage export policies

The 20.04 release of CSI Trident provides the ability to dynamically manage export policies for ONTAP backends. This provides the storage administrator the ability to specify a permissible address space for worker node IPs, rather than defining explicit rules manually. It greatly simplifies export policy management; modifications to the export policy no longer require manual intervention on the storage cluster. Moreover, this helps restrict access to the storage cluster only to worker nodes that have IPs in the range specified, supporting a finegrained and automated managment.

NOTE: The dynamic management of export policies is only available for CSI Trident. It is important to ensure that the worker nodes are not being NATed.

==== Example

There are two configuration options that must be used. Here’s an example backend definition:
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
    "backendName": "ontap_nas_auto_export,
    "managementLIF": "192.168.0.135",
    "svm": "svm1",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "FaKePaSsWoRd",
    "autoExportCIDRs": ["192.168.0.0/24"],
    "autoExportPolicy": true
}
----

NOTE: When using this feature, you must ensure that the root junction in your SVM has a precreated export policy with an export rule that permits the node CIDR block (such as the default export policy). Always follow NetApp’s recommended best practice of dedicating a SVM for Astra Trident.

Here is an explanation of how this feature works using the example above:

* `autoExportPolicy` is set to `true`. This indicates that Astra Trident will create an export policy for the `svm1` SVM and handle the addition and deletion of rules using `autoExportCIDRs` address blocks. For example, a backend with UUID 403b5326-8482-40db-96d0-d83fb3f4daec and `autoExportPolicy` set to `true` creates an export policy named `trident-403b5326-8482-40db-96d0-d83fb3f4daec` on the SVM.
* `autoExportCIDRs` contains a list of address blocks. This field is optional and it defaults to ["0.0.0.0/0", "::/0"]. If not defined, Astra Trident adds all globally-scoped unicast addresses found on the worker nodes.

In this example, the `192.168.0.0/24` address space is provided. This indicates that Kubernetes node IPs that fall within this address range will be added to the export policy that Astra Trident creates. When Astra Trident registers a node it runs on, it retrieves the IP addresses of the node and checks them against the address blocks provided in `autoExportCIDRs`. After filtering the IPs, Astra Trident creates export policy rules for the client IPs it discovers, with one rule for each node it identifies.

You can update `autoExportPolicy` and `autoExportCIDRs` for backends after you create them. You can append new CIDRs for a backend that is automatically managed or delete existing CIDRs. Exercise care when deleting CIDRs to ensure that existing connections are not dropped. You can also choose to disable `autoExportPolicy` for a backend and fall back to a manually created export policy. This will require setting the `exportPolicy` parameter in your backend config.

After Astra Trident creates or updates a backend, you can check the backend using `tridentctl` or the corresponding `tridentbackend` CRD:
----
$ ./tridentctl get backends ontap_nas_auto_export -n trident -o yaml
items:
- backendUUID: 403b5326-8482-40db-96d0-d83fb3f4daec
  config:
    aggregate: ""
    autoExportCIDRs:
    - 192.168.0.0/24
    autoExportPolicy: true
    backendName: ontap_nas_auto_export
    chapInitiatorSecret: ""
    chapTargetInitiatorSecret: ""
    chapTargetUsername: ""
    chapUsername: ""
    dataLIF: 192.168.0.135
    debug: false
    debugTraceFlags: null
    defaults:
      encryption: "false"
      exportPolicy: <automatic>
      fileSystemType: ext4
----

As nodes are added to a Kubernetes cluster and registered with the Astra Trident controller, export policies of existing backends are updated (provided they fall in the address range specified in `autoExportCIDRs` for the backend).

When a node is removed, Astra Trident checks all backends that are online to remove the access rule for the node. By removing this node IP from the export policies of managed backends, Astra Trident prevents rogue mounts, unless this IP is reused by a new node in the cluster.

For previously existing backends, updating the backend with `tridentctl update backend` will ensure that Astra Trident manages the export policies automatically. This will create a new export policy named after the backend’s UUID and volumes that are present on the backend will use the newly created export policy when they are mounted again.

NOTE: Deleting a backend with auto-managed export policies will delete the dynamically created export policy. If the backend is re-created, it is treated as a new backend and will result in the creation of a new export policy.

If the IP address of a live node is updated, you must restart the Astra Trident pod on the node. Astra Trident will then update the export policy for backends it manages to reflect this IP change.

Commit message:

10925: Use only one auth mode
The user will be allowed to have only one authentication methods(either certificate based or username/password based) in the backend config of ONTAP and Flex group backends.

In case, there is more than one authentication method present, the backend creation will fail with an error that more than one authentication method is present in the config. The user will have to remove one of the authentication methods from the config file.

trident-use/ontap-nas-prep.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/ontap-nas-prep.html
keywords: trident backend, ontap nas, ontap-nas, ontap-nas-economy, ontap-nas-flexgroups
summary: Learn about how to prepare to configure an ONTAP backend with ONTAP NAS drivers.
---

= Preparation
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Learn about how to prepare to configure an ONTAP backend with ONTAP NAS drivers. For all ONTAP backends, Astra Trident requires at least one aggregate assigned to the SVM.

For all ONTAP backends, Astra Trident requires at least one aggregate assigned to the SVM.

Remember that you can also run more than one driver, and create storage classes that point to one or the other. For example, you could configure a Gold class that uses the `ontap-nas` driver and a Bronze class that uses the `ontap-nas-economy` one.

All your Kubernetes worker nodes must have the appropriate NFS tools installed. See link:worker-node-prep.html[here] for more details.

== Authentication

Astra Trident offers two modes of authenticating an ONTAP backend.

* Credential-based: The username and password to an ONTAP user with the required permissions. It is recommended to use a pre-defined security login role, such as `admin` or `vsadmin` to ensure maximum compatibility with ONTAP versions.
* Certificate-based: Astra Trident can also communicate with an ONTAP cluster using a certificate installed on the backend. Here, the backend definition must contain Base64-encoded values of the client certificate, key, and the trusted CA certificate if used (recommended).

Users can update existing backends to move between credential-based and certificate-based methods. However, only one authentication method is supported at a time. To switch from a different authentication method, you must remove the existing method from the backend configuration.

WARNING: If you attempt to provide *both credentials and certificates*, backend creation will fail with an error that more than one authentication method was provided in the configuration file. 

=== Enable credential-based authentication

Astra Trident requires the credentials to an SVM-scoped/cluster-scoped admin to communicate with the ONTAP backend. It is recommended to make use of standard, pre-defined roles such as `admin` or `vsadmin`. This ensures forward compatibility with future ONTAP releases that might expose feature APIs to be used by future Astra Trident releases. A custom security login role can be created and used with Astra Trident, but is not recommended.

A sample backend definition will look like this:
----
{
  "version": 1,
  "backendName": "ExampleBackend",
  "storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
  "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
  "dataLIF": "10.0.0.2",
  "svm": "svm_nfs",
  "username": "vsadmin",
  "password": "secret"
}
----

Keep in mind that the backend definition is the only place the credentials are stored in plain text. After the backend is created, usernames/passwords are encoded with Base64 and stored as Kubernetes secrets. The creation/updation of a backend is the only step that requires knowledge of the credentials. As such, it is an admin-only operation, to be performed by the Kubernetes/storage administrator.

=== Enable certificate-based Authentication

New and existing backends can use a certificate and communicate with the ONTAP backend. Three parameters are required in the backend definition.

* clientCertificate: Base64-encoded value of client certificate.
* clientPrivateKey: Base64-encoded value of associated private key.
* trustedCACertificate: Base64-encoded value of trusted CA certificate. If using a trusted CA, this parameter must be provided. This can be ignored if no trusted CA is used.

A typical workflow involves the following steps.

.Steps

. Generate a client certificate and key. When generating, set Common Name (CN) to the ONTAP user to authenticate as.
+
----
openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 1095 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout k8senv.key -out k8senv.pem -subj "/C=US/ST=NC/L=RTP/O=NetApp/CN=vsadmin"
----
. Add trusted CA certificate to the ONTAP cluster. This might be already handled by the storage administrator. Ignore if no trusted CA is used.
+
----
security certificate install -type server -cert-name <trusted-ca-cert-name> -vserver <vserver-name>
ssl modify -vserver <vserver-name> -server-enabled true -client-enabled true -common-name <common-name> -serial <SN-from-trusted-CA-cert> -ca <cert-authority>
----
. Install the client certificate and key (from step 1) on the ONTAP cluster.
+
----
security certificate install -type client-ca -cert-name <certificate-name> -vserver <vserver-name>
security ssl modify -vserver <vserver-name> -client-enabled true
----
. Confirm the ONTAP security login role supports `cert` authentication method.
+
----
security login create -user-or-group-name vsadmin -application ontapi -authentication-method cert -vserver <vserver-name> 
security login create -user-or-group-name vsadmin -application http -authentication-method cert -vserver <vserver-name>
----
. Test authentication using certificate generated. Replace <ONTAP Management LIF> and <vserver name> with Management LIF IP and SVM name. You must ensure the LIF has its service policy set to `default-data-management`.
+
----
curl -X POST -Lk https://<ONTAP-Management-LIF>/servlets/netapp.servlets.admin.XMLrequest_filer --key k8senv.key --cert ~/k8senv.pem -d '<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><netapp xmlns="http://www.netapp.com/filer/admin" version="1.21" vfiler="<vserver-name>"><vserver-get></vserver-get></netapp>'
----
. Encode certificate, key and trusted CA certificate with Base64.
+
----
base64 -w 0 k8senv.pem >> cert_base64
base64 -w 0 k8senv.key >> key_base64
base64 -w 0 trustedca.pem >> trustedca_base64
----
. Create backend using the values obtained from the previous step.
+
----
$ cat cert-backend-updated.json
{
"version": 1,
"storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
"backendName": "NasBackend",
"managementLIF": "1.2.3.4",
"dataLIF": "1.2.3.8",
"svm": "vserver_test",
"clientCertificate": "Faaaakkkkeeee...Vaaalllluuuueeee",
"clientPrivateKey": "LS0tFaKE...0VaLuES0tLS0K",
"storagePrefix": "myPrefix_"
}

#Update backend with tridentctl
$ tridentctl update backend NasBackend -f cert-backend-updated.json -n trident
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|    NAME    | STORAGE DRIVER |                 UUID                 | STATE  | VOLUMES |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| NasBackend | ontap-nas      | 98e19b74-aec7-4a3d-8dcf-128e5033b214 | online |       9 |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

=== Update authentication methods or rotate credentials

You can update an existing backend to use a different authentication method or to rotate their credentials. This works both ways: backends that make use of username/password can be updated to use certificates; backends that utilize certificates can be updated to username/password based. To do this, you must remove the existing authentication method from the backend congifuration file and use an updated `backend.json` file containing the required parameters to execute `tridentctl backend update`.

----
$ cat cert-backend-updated.json
{
"version": 1,
"storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
"backendName": "NasBackend",
"managementLIF": "1.2.3.4",
"dataLIF": "1.2.3.8",
"svm": "vserver_test",
"username": "vsadmin",
"password": "secret",
"storagePrefix": "myPrefix_"
}

#Update backend with tridentctl
$ tridentctl update backend NasBackend -f cert-backend-updated.json -n trident
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|    NAME    | STORAGE DRIVER |                 UUID                 | STATE  | VOLUMES |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| NasBackend | ontap-nas      | 98e19b74-aec7-4a3d-8dcf-128e5033b214 | online |       9 |
+------------+----------------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: When rotating passwords, the storage administrator must first update the password for the user on ONTAP. This is followed by a backend update. When rotating certificates, multiple certificates can be added to the user. The backend is then updated to use the new certificate, following which the old certificate can be deleted from the ONTAP cluster.

Updating a backend does not disrupt access to volumes that have already been created, nor impact volume connections made after. A successful backend update indicates that Astra Trident can communicate with the ONTAP backend and handle future volume operations.

== Manage NFS export policies

Astra Trident uses NFS export policies to control access to the volumes that it provisions.

Astra Trident provides two options when working with export policies:

* Astra Trident can dynamically manage the export policy itself; in this mode of operation, the storage administrator specifies a list of CIDR blocks that represent admissible IP addresses. Astra Trident adds node IPs that fall in these ranges to the export policy automatically. Alternatively, when no CIDRs are specified, any global-scoped unicast IP found on the nodes will be added to the export policy.
* Storage administrators can create an export policy and add rules manually. Astra Trident uses the default export policy unless a different export policy name is specified in the configuration.

=== Dynamically manage export policies

The 20.04 release of CSI Trident provides the ability to dynamically manage export policies for ONTAP backends. This provides the storage administrator the ability to specify a permissible address space for worker node IPs, rather than defining explicit rules manually. It greatly simplifies export policy management; modifications to the export policy no longer require manual intervention on the storage cluster. Moreover, this helps restrict access to the storage cluster only to worker nodes that have IPs in the range specified, supporting a finegrained and automated managment.

NOTE: The dynamic management of export policies is only available for CSI Trident. It is important to ensure that the worker nodes are not being NATed.

==== Example

There are two configuration options that must be used. Here’s an example backend definition:
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-nas",
    "backendName": "ontap_nas_auto_export,
    "managementLIF": "192.168.0.135",
    "svm": "svm1",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "FaKePaSsWoRd",
    "autoExportCIDRs": ["192.168.0.0/24"],
    "autoExportPolicy": true
}
----

NOTE: When using this feature, you must ensure that the root junction in your SVM has a precreated export policy with an export rule that permits the node CIDR block (such as the default export policy). Always follow NetApp’s recommended best practice of dedicating a SVM for Astra Trident.

Here is an explanation of how this feature works using the example above:

* `autoExportPolicy` is set to `true`. This indicates that Astra Trident will create an export policy for the `svm1` SVM and handle the addition and deletion of rules using `autoExportCIDRs` address blocks. For example, a backend with UUID 403b5326-8482-40db-96d0-d83fb3f4daec and `autoExportPolicy` set to `true` creates an export policy named `trident-403b5326-8482-40db-96d0-d83fb3f4daec` on the SVM.
* `autoExportCIDRs` contains a list of address blocks. This field is optional and it defaults to ["0.0.0.0/0", "::/0"]. If not defined, Astra Trident adds all globally-scoped unicast addresses found on the worker nodes.

In this example, the `192.168.0.0/24` address space is provided. This indicates that Kubernetes node IPs that fall within this address range will be added to the export policy that Astra Trident creates. When Astra Trident registers a node it runs on, it retrieves the IP addresses of the node and checks them against the address blocks provided in `autoExportCIDRs`. After filtering the IPs, Astra Trident creates export policy rules for the client IPs it discovers, with one rule for each node it identifies.

You can update `autoExportPolicy` and `autoExportCIDRs` for backends after you create them. You can append new CIDRs for a backend that is automatically managed or delete existing CIDRs. Exercise care when deleting CIDRs to ensure that existing connections are not dropped. You can also choose to disable `autoExportPolicy` for a backend and fall back to a manually created export policy. This will require setting the `exportPolicy` parameter in your backend config.

After Astra Trident creates or updates a backend, you can check the backend using `tridentctl` or the corresponding `tridentbackend` CRD:
----
$ ./tridentctl get backends ontap_nas_auto_export -n trident -o yaml
items:
- backendUUID: 403b5326-8482-40db-96d0-d83fb3f4daec
  config:
    aggregate: ""
    autoExportCIDRs:
    - 192.168.0.0/24
    autoExportPolicy: true
    backendName: ontap_nas_auto_export
    chapInitiatorSecret: ""
    chapTargetInitiatorSecret: ""
    chapTargetUsername: ""
    chapUsername: ""
    dataLIF: 192.168.0.135
    debug: false
    debugTraceFlags: null
    defaults:
      encryption: "false"
      exportPolicy: <automatic>
      fileSystemType: ext4
----

As nodes are added to a Kubernetes cluster and registered with the Astra Trident controller, export policies of existing backends are updated (provided they fall in the address range specified in `autoExportCIDRs` for the backend).

When a node is removed, Astra Trident checks all backends that are online to remove the access rule for the node. By removing this node IP from the export policies of managed backends, Astra Trident prevents rogue mounts, unless this IP is reused by a new node in the cluster.

For previously existing backends, updating the backend with `tridentctl update backend` will ensure that Astra Trident manages the export policies automatically. This will create a new export policy named after the backend’s UUID and volumes that are present on the backend will use the newly created export policy when they are mounted again.

NOTE: Deleting a backend with auto-managed export policies will delete the dynamically created export policy. If the backend is re-created, it is treated as a new backend and will result in the creation of a new export policy.

If the IP address of a live node is updated, you must restart the Astra Trident pod on the node. Astra Trident will then update the export policy for backends it manages to reflect this IP change.
