trident-use/ontap-san-examples.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/ontap-san-examples.html
keywords: map backends, storage classes, trident backend, ontap san, ontap san economy, options, storageclasses, fsx
summary: Learn about how to create and use ONTAP SAN drivers with your Astra Trident installation. This section provides backend configuration examples and details about how to map backends to StorageClasses.
---

= Configuration options and examples
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Learn about how to create and use ONTAP SAN drivers with your Astra Trident installation. This section provides backend configuration examples and details about how to map backends to StorageClasses.

== Backend configuration options

See the following table for the backend configuration options:

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`version` | |Always 1

|`storageDriverName` | Name of the storage driver |“ontap-nas”, “ontap-nas-economy”, “ontap-nas-flexgroup”, “ontap-san”, “ontap-san-economy”

|`backendName`  |Custom name or the storage backend |Driver name + “_” + dataLIF

|`managementLIF` |IP address of a cluster or SVM management LIF |“10.0.0.1”, “[2001:1234:abcd::fefe]”

|`dataLIF` |IP address of protocol LIF. Use square brackets for IPv6. Cannot be updated after you set it |Derived by the SVM unless specified

|`useCHAP` |Use CHAP to authenticate iSCSI for ONTAP SAN drivers [Boolean] |false

|`chapInitiatorSecret` |CHAP initiator secret. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`labels` |Set of arbitrary JSON-formatted labels to apply on volumes |“”

|`chapTargetInitiatorSecret` |CHAP target initiator secret. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`chapUsername` |Inbound username. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`chapTargetUsername` |Target username. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`clientCertificate` |Base64-encoded value of client certificate. Used for certificate-based auth |“”

|`clientPrivateKey` |Base64-encoded value of client private key. Used for certificate-based auth |“”

|`trustedCACertificate` |Base64-encoded value of trusted CA certificate. Optional. Used for certificate-based auth |“”

|`username` |Username to connect to the cluster/SVM. Used for credential-based auth |“”

|`password` |Password to connect to the cluster/SVM. Used for credential-based auth |“”

|`svm` |Storage virtual machine to use |Derived if an SVM `managementLIF` is specified

|`igroupName` |Name of the igroup for SAN volumes to use |“trident-<backend-UUID>”

|`storagePrefix` |Prefix used when provisioning new volumes in the SVM. Cannot be updated after you set it |“trident”

|`limitAggregateUsage` |Fail provisioning if usage is above this percentage. *Does not apply to Amazon FSx for ONTAP* |“” (not enforced by default)

|`limitVolumeSize` |Fail provisioning if requested volume size is above this value for the economy driver. |“”  (not enforced by default)

|`lunsPerFlexvol` |Maximum LUNs per Flexvol, must be in range [50, 200] |“100”

|`debugTraceFlags` |Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example, {“api”:false, “method”:true} |null

|`useREST` |Boolean parameter to use ONTAP REST APIs. *Tech preview*	|false

|===

NOTE: `useREST` is provided as a **tech preview** that is recommended for test environments and not for production workloads. When set to `true`, Astra Trident will use ONTAP REST APIs to communicate with the backend. This feature requires ONTAP 9.9 and later. In addition, the ONTAP login role used must have access to the `ontap` application. This is satisfied by the pre-defined `vsadmin` and `cluster-admin` roles.

To communicate with the ONTAP cluster, you should provide the authentication parameters. This could be the username/password to a security login or an installed certificate.

WARNING: If you are using an Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP backend, do not specify the `limitAggregateUsage` parameter. The `fsxadmin` and `vsadmin` roles provided by Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP do not contain the required access permissions to retrieve aggregate usage and limit it through Astra Trident.

WARNING: Do not use `debugTraceFlags` unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump.

For the `ontap-san` drivers, the default is to use all data LIF IPs from the SVM and to use iSCSI multipath. Specifying an IP address for the dataLIF for the `ontap-san` drivers forces them to disable multipath and use only the specified address.

NOTE: When creating a backend, remember that `dataLIF` and `storagePrefix` cannot be modified after creation. To update these parameters, you will need to create a new backend.

`igroupName` can be set to an igroup that is already created on the ONTAP cluster. If unspecified, Astra Trident automatically creates an igroup named trident-<backend-UUID>. If providing a pre-defined igroupName, NetApp recommends using an igroup per Kubernetes cluster, if the SVM is to be shared between environments. This is necessary for Astra Trident to maintain IQN additions/deletions automatically.

Backends can also have igroups updated after creation:

* igroupName can be updated to point to a new igroup that is created and managed on the SVM outside of Astra Trident.
* igroupName can be omitted. In this case, Astra Trident will create and manage a trident-<backend-UUID> igroup automatically.

In both cases, volume attachments will continue to be accessible. Future volume attachments will use the updated igroup. This update does not disrupt access to volumes present on the backend.

A fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) can be specified for the `managementLIF` option.

`managementLIF` for all ONTAP drivers can also be set to IPv6 addresses. Make sure to install Trident with the `--use-ipv6` flag. Care must be taken to define `managementLIF` IPv6 address within square brackets.

WARNING: When using IPv6 addresses, make sure `managementLIF` and `dataLIF` (if included in your backend definition) are defined within square brackets, such as [28e8:d9fb:a825:b7bf:69a8:d02f:9e7b:3555]. If `dataLIF` is not provided, Astra Trident will fetch the IPv6 data LIFs from the SVM.

To enable the ontap-san drivers to use CHAP, set the `useCHAP` parameter to `true` in your backend definition. Astra Trident will then configure and use bidirectional CHAP as the default authentication for the SVM given in the backend. See link:ontap-san-prep.html[here^] to learn about how it works.

For the `ontap-san-economy` driver, the `limitVolumeSize` option will also restrict the maximum size of the volumes it manages for qtrees and LUNs.

NOTE: Astra Trident sets provisioning labels in the “Comments” field of all volumes created using the `ontap-san` driver. For each volume created, the “Comments” field on the FlexVol will be populated with all labels present on the storage pool it is placed in. Storage administrators can define labels per storage pool and group all volumes created in a storage pool. This provides a convenient way of differentiating volumes based on a set of customizable labels that are provided in the backend configuration.

=== Backend configuration options for provisioning volumes

You can control how each volume is provisioned by default using these options in a special section of the configuration. For an example, see the configuration examples below.

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`spaceAllocation` |Space-allocation for LUNs |“true”

|`spaceReserve` |Space reservation mode; “none” (thin) or “volume” (thick) |“none”

|`snapshotPolicy` |Snapshot policy to use |“none”

|`qosPolicy` |QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool/backend |“”

|`adaptiveQosPolicy` |Adaptive QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool/backend |“”

|`snapshotReserve` |Percentage of volume reserved for snapshots	“0” |If `snapshotPolicy` is “none”, else “”

|`splitOnClone` |Split a clone from its parent upon creation |“false”

|`splitOnClone` |Split a clone from its parent upon creation |“false”

|`encryption` |Enable NetApp volume encryption |“false”

|`securityStyle` |Security style for new volumes |“unix”

|`tieringPolicy` |Tiering policy to use	“none” |“snapshot-only” for pre-ONTAP 9.5 SVM-DR configuration

|===

NOTE: Using QoS policy groups with Astra Trident requires ONTAP 9.8 or later. It is recommended to use a non-shared QoS policy group and ensure the policy group is applied to each constituent individually. A shared QoS policy group will enforce the ceiling for the total throughput of all workloads.

Here’s an example with defaults defined:
----
{
 "version": 1,
 "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
 "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
 "dataLIF": "10.0.0.2",
 "svm": "trident_svm",
 "username": "admin",
 "password": "password",
 "labels": {"k8scluster": "dev2", "backend": "dev2-sanbackend"},
 "storagePrefix": "alternate-trident",
 "igroupName": "custom",
 "debugTraceFlags": {"api":false, "method":true},
 "defaults": {
     "spaceReserve": "volume",
     "qosPolicy": "standard",
     "spaceAllocation": "false",
     "snapshotPolicy": "default",
     "snapshotReserve": "10"
 }
}
----

NOTE: For all volumes created using the `ontap-san` driver, Astra Trident adds an extra 10 percent capacity to the FlexVol to accommodate the LUN metadata. The LUN will be provisioned with the exact size that the user requests in the PVC. Astra Trident adds 10 percent to the FlexVol (shows as Available size in ONTAP). Users will now get the amount of usable capacity they requested. This change also prevents LUNs from becoming read-only unless the available space is fully utilized. This does not apply to ontap-san-economy.

For backends that define `snapshotReserve`, Astra Trident calculates the size of volumes as follows:
----
Total volume size = [(PVC requested size) / (1 - (snapshotReserve percentage) / 100)] * 1.1
----

The 1.1 is the extra 10 percent Astra Trident adds to the FlexVol to accommodate the LUN metadata. For `snapshotReserve` = 5%, and PVC request = 5GiB, the total volume size is 5.79GiB and the available size is 5.5GiB. The `volume show` command should show results similar to this example:

image::../media/vol-show-san.png[Shows the output of the volume show command.]

Currently, resizing is the only way to use the new calculation for an existing volume.

== Minimal configuration examples

The following examples show basic configurations that leave most parameters to default. This is the easiest way to define a backend.

NOTE: If you are using Amazon FSx on NetApp ONTAP with Astra Trident, the recommendation is to specify DNS names for LIFs instead of IP addresses.

=== `ontap-san` driver with certificate-based authentication

This is a minimal backend configuration example. `clientCertificate`, `clientPrivateKey`, and `trustedCACertificate` (optional, if using trusted CA) are populated in `backend.json` and take the base64-encoded values of the client certificate, private key, and trusted CA certificate, respectively.
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
    "backendName": "DefaultSANBackend",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "dataLIF": "10.0.0.3",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "clientCertificate": "ZXR0ZXJwYXB...ICMgJ3BhcGVyc2",
    "clientPrivateKey": "vciwKIyAgZG...0cnksIGRlc2NyaX",
    "trustedCACertificate": "zcyBbaG...b3Igb3duIGNsYXNz"
}
----

=== `ontap-san` driver with bidirectional CHAP

This is a minimal backend configuration example. This basic configuration creates an `ontap-san` backend with `useCHAP` set to `true`.
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "dataLIF": "10.0.0.3",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi",
    "labels": {"k8scluster": "test-cluster-1", "backend": "testcluster1-sanbackend"},
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret"
}
----

=== `ontap-san-economy` driver

----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san-economy",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi_eco",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret"
}
----

== Examples of backends with virtual storage pools

In the sample backend definition file shown below, specific defaults are set for all storage pools, such as `spaceReserve` at none, `spaceAllocation` at false, and `encryption` at false. The virtual storage pools are defined in the storage section.

In this example, some of the storage pool sets their own `spaceReserve`, `spaceAllocation`, and `encryption` values, and some pools overwrite the default values set above.
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "dataLIF": "10.0.0.3",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret",

    "defaults": {
          "spaceAllocation": "false",
          "encryption": "false",
          "qosPolicy": "standard"
    },
    "labels":{"store": "san_store", "kubernetes-cluster": "prod-cluster-1"},
    "region": "us_east_1",
    "storage": [
        {
            "labels":{"protection":"gold", "creditpoints":"40000"},
            "zone":"us_east_1a",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "true",
                "adaptiveQosPolicy": "adaptive-extreme"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"protection":"silver", "creditpoints":"20000"},
            "zone":"us_east_1b",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "false",
                "encryption": "true",
                "qosPolicy": "premium"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"protection":"bronze", "creditpoints":"5000"},
            "zone":"us_east_1c",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "false"
            }
        }
    ]
}
----

Here is an iSCSI example for the `ontap-san-economy` driver:
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san-economy",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi_eco",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret",

    "defaults": {
          "spaceAllocation": "false",
          "encryption": "false"
    },
    "labels":{"store":"san_economy_store"},
    "region": "us_east_1",
    "storage": [
        {
            "labels":{"app":"oracledb", "cost":"30"},
            "zone":"us_east_1a",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "true"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"app":"postgresdb", "cost":"20"},
            "zone":"us_east_1b",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "false",
                "encryption": "true"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"app":"mysqldb", "cost":"10"},
            "zone":"us_east_1c",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "false"
            }
        }
    ]
}
----

== Map backends to StorageClasses

The following StorageClass definitions refer to the above virtual storage pools. Using the `parameters.selector` field, each StorageClass calls out which virtual pool(s) can be used to host a volume. The volume will have the aspects defined in the chosen virtual pool.

* The first StorageClass (`protection-gold`) will map to the first, second virtual storage pool in the `ontap-nas-flexgroup` backend and the first virtual storage pool in the `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pool offering gold level protection.
* The second StorageClass (`protection-not-gold`) will map to the third, fourth virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas-flexgroup` backend and the second, third virtual storage pool in `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pools offering protection level other than gold.
* The third StorageClass (`app-mysqldb`) will map to the fourth virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas` backend and the third virtual storage pool in `ontap-san-economy` backend. These are the only pools offering storage pool configuration for mysqldb type app.
* The fourth StorageClass (`protection-silver-creditpoints-20k`) will map to the third virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas-flexgroup` backend and the second virtual storage pool in `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pools offering gold-level protection at 20000 creditpoints.
* The fifth StorageClass (`creditpoints-5k`) will map to the second virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas-economy` backend and the third virtual storage pool in `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pool offerings at 5000 creditpoints.

Astra Trident will decide which virtual storage pool is selected and will ensure the storage requirement is met.
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: protection-gold
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "protection=gold"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: protection-not-gold
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "protection!=gold"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: app-mysqldb
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "app=mysqldb"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: protection-silver-creditpoints-20k
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "protection=silver; creditpoints=20000"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: creditpoints-5k
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "creditpoints=5000"
  fsType: "ext4"
----

Commit message:

Added switchover support for MCC
Updated ONTAP backend config options to include considerations for seamless MCC switchover

trident-use/ontap-san-examples.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/ontap-san-examples.html
keywords: map backends, storage classes, trident backend, ontap san, ontap san economy, options, storageclasses, fsx
summary: Learn about how to create and use ONTAP SAN drivers with your Astra Trident installation. This section provides backend configuration examples and details about how to map backends to StorageClasses.
---

= Configuration options and examples
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Learn about how to create and use ONTAP SAN drivers with your Astra Trident installation. This section provides backend configuration examples and details about how to map backends to StorageClasses.

== Backend configuration options

See the following table for the backend configuration options:

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`version` | |Always 1

|`storageDriverName` | Name of the storage driver |“ontap-nas”, “ontap-nas-economy”, “ontap-nas-flexgroup”, “ontap-san”, “ontap-san-economy”

|`backendName`  |Custom name or the storage backend |Driver name + “_” + dataLIF

|`managementLIF` |IP address of a cluster or SVM management LIF

For seamless MetroCluster switchover, you must specify a SVM management LIF. This feature is **tech preview**. |“10.0.0.1”, “[2001:1234:abcd::fefe]”

|`dataLIF` |IP address of protocol LIF. Use square brackets for IPv6. Cannot be updated after you set it |Derived by the SVM unless specified

|`useCHAP` |Use CHAP to authenticate iSCSI for ONTAP SAN drivers [Boolean] |false

|`chapInitiatorSecret` |CHAP initiator secret. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`labels` |Set of arbitrary JSON-formatted labels to apply on volumes |“”

|`chapTargetInitiatorSecret` |CHAP target initiator secret. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`chapUsername` |Inbound username. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`chapTargetUsername` |Target username. Required if `useCHAP=true` |“”

|`clientCertificate` |Base64-encoded value of client certificate. Used for certificate-based auth |“”

|`clientPrivateKey` |Base64-encoded value of client private key. Used for certificate-based auth |“”

|`trustedCACertificate` |Base64-encoded value of trusted CA certificate. Optional. Used for certificate-based auth |“”

|`username` |Username to connect to the cluster/SVM. Used for credential-based auth |“”

|`password` |Password to connect to the cluster/SVM. Used for credential-based auth |“”

|`svm` |Storage virtual machine to use |Derived if an SVM `managementLIF` is specified

|`igroupName` |Name of the igroup for SAN volumes to use |“trident-<backend-UUID>”

|`storagePrefix` |Prefix used when provisioning new volumes in the SVM. Cannot be updated after you set it |“trident”

|`limitAggregateUsage` |Fail provisioning if usage is above this percentage. *Does not apply to Amazon FSx for ONTAP* |“” (not enforced by default)

|`limitVolumeSize` |Fail provisioning if requested volume size is above this value for the economy driver. |“”  (not enforced by default)

|`lunsPerFlexvol` |Maximum LUNs per Flexvol, must be in range [50, 200] |“100”

|`debugTraceFlags` |Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example, {“api”:false, “method”:true} |null

|`useREST` |Boolean parameter to use ONTAP REST APIs. *Tech preview*	|false

|===

[WARNING]
.`useREST` considerations
===============================
* `useREST` is provided as a **tech preview** that is recommended for test environments and not for production workloads. When set to `true`, Astra Trident will use ONTAP REST APIs to communicate with the backend. This feature requires ONTAP 9.9 and later. In addition, the ONTAP login role used must have access to the `ontap` application. This is satisfied by the pre-defined `vsadmin` and `cluster-admin` roles.
* REST is not supported with MetroCluster.
===============================

To communicate with the ONTAP cluster, you should provide the authentication parameters. This could be the username/password to a security login or an installed certificate.

WARNING: If you are using an Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP backend, do not specify the `limitAggregateUsage` parameter. The `fsxadmin` and `vsadmin` roles provided by Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP do not contain the required access permissions to retrieve aggregate usage and limit it through Astra Trident.

WARNING: Do not use `debugTraceFlags` unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump.

For the `ontap-san` drivers, the default is to use all data LIF IPs from the SVM and to use iSCSI multipath. Specifying an IP address for the dataLIF for the `ontap-san` drivers forces them to disable multipath and use only the specified address.

NOTE: When creating a backend, remember that `dataLIF` and `storagePrefix` cannot be modified after creation. To update these parameters, you will need to create a new backend.

`igroupName` can be set to an igroup that is already created on the ONTAP cluster. If unspecified, Astra Trident automatically creates an igroup named trident-<backend-UUID>. If providing a pre-defined igroupName, NetApp recommends using an igroup per Kubernetes cluster, if the SVM is to be shared between environments. This is necessary for Astra Trident to maintain IQN additions/deletions automatically.

Backends can also have igroups updated after creation:

* igroupName can be updated to point to a new igroup that is created and managed on the SVM outside of Astra Trident.
* igroupName can be omitted. In this case, Astra Trident will create and manage a trident-<backend-UUID> igroup automatically.

In both cases, volume attachments will continue to be accessible. Future volume attachments will use the updated igroup. This update does not disrupt access to volumes present on the backend.

A fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) can be specified for the `managementLIF` option.

`managementLIF` for all ONTAP drivers can also be set to IPv6 addresses. Make sure to install Trident with the `--use-ipv6` flag. Care must be taken to define `managementLIF` IPv6 address within square brackets.

WARNING: When using IPv6 addresses, make sure `managementLIF` and `dataLIF` (if included in your backend definition) are defined within square brackets, such as [28e8:d9fb:a825:b7bf:69a8:d02f:9e7b:3555]. If `dataLIF` is not provided, Astra Trident will fetch the IPv6 data LIFs from the SVM.

To enable the ontap-san drivers to use CHAP, set the `useCHAP` parameter to `true` in your backend definition. Astra Trident will then configure and use bidirectional CHAP as the default authentication for the SVM given in the backend. See link:ontap-san-prep.html[here^] to learn about how it works.

For the `ontap-san-economy` driver, the `limitVolumeSize` option will also restrict the maximum size of the volumes it manages for qtrees and LUNs.

NOTE: Astra Trident sets provisioning labels in the “Comments” field of all volumes created using the `ontap-san` driver. For each volume created, the “Comments” field on the FlexVol will be populated with all labels present on the storage pool it is placed in. Storage administrators can define labels per storage pool and group all volumes created in a storage pool. This provides a convenient way of differentiating volumes based on a set of customizable labels that are provided in the backend configuration.

=== Backend configuration options for provisioning volumes

You can control how each volume is provisioned by default using these options in a special section of the configuration. For an example, see the configuration examples below.

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`spaceAllocation` |Space-allocation for LUNs |“true”

|`spaceReserve` |Space reservation mode; “none” (thin) or “volume” (thick) |“none”

|`snapshotPolicy` |Snapshot policy to use |“none”

|`qosPolicy` |QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool/backend |“”

|`adaptiveQosPolicy` |Adaptive QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool/backend |“”

|`snapshotReserve` |Percentage of volume reserved for snapshots	“0” |If `snapshotPolicy` is “none”, else “”

|`splitOnClone` |Split a clone from its parent upon creation |“false”

|`splitOnClone` |Split a clone from its parent upon creation |“false”

|`encryption` |Enable NetApp volume encryption |“false”

|`securityStyle` |Security style for new volumes |“unix”

|`tieringPolicy` |Tiering policy to use	“none” |“snapshot-only” for pre-ONTAP 9.5 SVM-DR configuration

|===

NOTE: Using QoS policy groups with Astra Trident requires ONTAP 9.8 or later. It is recommended to use a non-shared QoS policy group and ensure the policy group is applied to each constituent individually. A shared QoS policy group will enforce the ceiling for the total throughput of all workloads.

Here’s an example with defaults defined:
----
{
 "version": 1,
 "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
 "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
 "dataLIF": "10.0.0.2",
 "svm": "trident_svm",
 "username": "admin",
 "password": "password",
 "labels": {"k8scluster": "dev2", "backend": "dev2-sanbackend"},
 "storagePrefix": "alternate-trident",
 "igroupName": "custom",
 "debugTraceFlags": {"api":false, "method":true},
 "defaults": {
     "spaceReserve": "volume",
     "qosPolicy": "standard",
     "spaceAllocation": "false",
     "snapshotPolicy": "default",
     "snapshotReserve": "10"
 }
}
----

NOTE: For all volumes created using the `ontap-san` driver, Astra Trident adds an extra 10 percent capacity to the FlexVol to accommodate the LUN metadata. The LUN will be provisioned with the exact size that the user requests in the PVC. Astra Trident adds 10 percent to the FlexVol (shows as Available size in ONTAP). Users will now get the amount of usable capacity they requested. This change also prevents LUNs from becoming read-only unless the available space is fully utilized. This does not apply to ontap-san-economy.

For backends that define `snapshotReserve`, Astra Trident calculates the size of volumes as follows:
----
Total volume size = [(PVC requested size) / (1 - (snapshotReserve percentage) / 100)] * 1.1
----

The 1.1 is the extra 10 percent Astra Trident adds to the FlexVol to accommodate the LUN metadata. For `snapshotReserve` = 5%, and PVC request = 5GiB, the total volume size is 5.79GiB and the available size is 5.5GiB. The `volume show` command should show results similar to this example:

image::../media/vol-show-san.png[Shows the output of the volume show command.]

Currently, resizing is the only way to use the new calculation for an existing volume.

== Minimal configuration examples

The following examples show basic configurations that leave most parameters to default. This is the easiest way to define a backend.

NOTE: If you are using Amazon FSx on NetApp ONTAP with Astra Trident, the recommendation is to specify DNS names for LIFs instead of IP addresses.

=== `ontap-san` driver with certificate-based authentication

This is a minimal backend configuration example. `clientCertificate`, `clientPrivateKey`, and `trustedCACertificate` (optional, if using trusted CA) are populated in `backend.json` and take the base64-encoded values of the client certificate, private key, and trusted CA certificate, respectively.
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
    "backendName": "DefaultSANBackend",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "dataLIF": "10.0.0.3",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "clientCertificate": "ZXR0ZXJwYXB...ICMgJ3BhcGVyc2",
    "clientPrivateKey": "vciwKIyAgZG...0cnksIGRlc2NyaX",
    "trustedCACertificate": "zcyBbaG...b3Igb3duIGNsYXNz"
}
----

=== `ontap-san` driver with bidirectional CHAP

This is a minimal backend configuration example. This basic configuration creates an `ontap-san` backend with `useCHAP` set to `true`.
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "dataLIF": "10.0.0.3",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi",
    "labels": {"k8scluster": "test-cluster-1", "backend": "testcluster1-sanbackend"},
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret"
}
----

=== `ontap-san-economy` driver

----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san-economy",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi_eco",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret"
}
----

== Examples of backends with virtual storage pools

In the sample backend definition file shown below, specific defaults are set for all storage pools, such as `spaceReserve` at none, `spaceAllocation` at false, and `encryption` at false. The virtual storage pools are defined in the storage section.

In this example, some of the storage pool sets their own `spaceReserve`, `spaceAllocation`, and `encryption` values, and some pools overwrite the default values set above.
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "dataLIF": "10.0.0.3",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret",

    "defaults": {
          "spaceAllocation": "false",
          "encryption": "false",
          "qosPolicy": "standard"
    },
    "labels":{"store": "san_store", "kubernetes-cluster": "prod-cluster-1"},
    "region": "us_east_1",
    "storage": [
        {
            "labels":{"protection":"gold", "creditpoints":"40000"},
            "zone":"us_east_1a",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "true",
                "adaptiveQosPolicy": "adaptive-extreme"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"protection":"silver", "creditpoints":"20000"},
            "zone":"us_east_1b",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "false",
                "encryption": "true",
                "qosPolicy": "premium"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"protection":"bronze", "creditpoints":"5000"},
            "zone":"us_east_1c",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "false"
            }
        }
    ]
}
----

Here is an iSCSI example for the `ontap-san-economy` driver:
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "ontap-san-economy",
    "managementLIF": "10.0.0.1",
    "svm": "svm_iscsi_eco",
    "useCHAP": true,
    "chapInitiatorSecret": "cl9qxIm36DKyawxy",
    "chapTargetInitiatorSecret": "rqxigXgkesIpwxyz",
    "chapTargetUsername": "iJF4heBRT0TCwxyz",
    "chapUsername": "uh2aNCLSd6cNwxyz",
    "igroupName": "trident",
    "username": "vsadmin",
    "password": "secret",

    "defaults": {
          "spaceAllocation": "false",
          "encryption": "false"
    },
    "labels":{"store":"san_economy_store"},
    "region": "us_east_1",
    "storage": [
        {
            "labels":{"app":"oracledb", "cost":"30"},
            "zone":"us_east_1a",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "true"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"app":"postgresdb", "cost":"20"},
            "zone":"us_east_1b",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "false",
                "encryption": "true"
            }
        },
        {
            "labels":{"app":"mysqldb", "cost":"10"},
            "zone":"us_east_1c",
            "defaults": {
                "spaceAllocation": "true",
                "encryption": "false"
            }
        }
    ]
}
----

== Map backends to StorageClasses

The following StorageClass definitions refer to the above virtual storage pools. Using the `parameters.selector` field, each StorageClass calls out which virtual pool(s) can be used to host a volume. The volume will have the aspects defined in the chosen virtual pool.

* The first StorageClass (`protection-gold`) will map to the first, second virtual storage pool in the `ontap-nas-flexgroup` backend and the first virtual storage pool in the `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pool offering gold level protection.
* The second StorageClass (`protection-not-gold`) will map to the third, fourth virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas-flexgroup` backend and the second, third virtual storage pool in `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pools offering protection level other than gold.
* The third StorageClass (`app-mysqldb`) will map to the fourth virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas` backend and the third virtual storage pool in `ontap-san-economy` backend. These are the only pools offering storage pool configuration for mysqldb type app.
* The fourth StorageClass (`protection-silver-creditpoints-20k`) will map to the third virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas-flexgroup` backend and the second virtual storage pool in `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pools offering gold-level protection at 20000 creditpoints.
* The fifth StorageClass (`creditpoints-5k`) will map to the second virtual storage pool in `ontap-nas-economy` backend and the third virtual storage pool in `ontap-san` backend. These are the only pool offerings at 5000 creditpoints.

Astra Trident will decide which virtual storage pool is selected and will ensure the storage requirement is met.
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: protection-gold
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "protection=gold"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: protection-not-gold
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "protection!=gold"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: app-mysqldb
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "app=mysqldb"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: protection-silver-creditpoints-20k
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "protection=silver; creditpoints=20000"
  fsType: "ext4"
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: creditpoints-5k
provisioner: netapp.io/trident
parameters:
  selector: "creditpoints=5000"
  fsType: "ext4"
----
