trident-use/trident-fsx-examples.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/trident-fsx-examples.html
keywords: map backends, storage classes, trident backend, ontap-nas, ontap-nas-economy, ontap-nas-flexgroups, options, storageclasses, fsx
summary: Learn about backend configuration options for Amazon FSx for ONTAP. This section provides backend configuration examples.
---

= FSx for ONTAP configuration options and examples
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Learn about backend configuration options for Amazon FSx for ONTAP. This section provides backend configuration examples.

== Backend configuration options

See the following table for the backend configuration options:

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Example

|`version` 
| 
|Always 1

|`storageDriverName` 
| Name of the storage driver 
|“ontap-nas”, “ontap-nas-economy”, “ontap-nas-flexgroup”, “ontap-san”, “ontap-san-economy”

|`backendName`  
|Custom name or the storage backend 
| Driver name + “_” + dataLIF

|`managementLIF` 
|IP address of a cluster or SVM management LIF 

For seamless MetroCluster switchover, you must specify an SVM management LIF.

A fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) can be specified.

Can be set to use IPv6 addresses if Astra Trident was installed using the `--use-ipv6` flag. IPv6 addresses must be defined in square brackets, such as [28e8:d9fb:a825:b7bf:69a8:d02f:9e7b:3555].  
|“10.0.0.1”, “[2001:1234:abcd::fefe]”

|`dataLIF` 
|IP address of protocol LIF. 

*ONTAP NAS drivers*: We recommend specifying dataLIF. If not provided, Astra Trident fetches data LIFs from the SVM. You can specify a fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) to be used for the NFS mount operations, allowing you to create a round-robin DNS to load-balance across multiple data LIFs. Can be changed after initial setting. Refer to <<Update `dataLIF` after initial configuration>>. 

*ONTAP SAN drivers*: Do not specify for iSCSI. Astra Trident uses ONTAP Selective LUN Map to discover the iSCI LIFs needed to establish a multi path session. A warning is generated if dataLIF is explicitly defined.

Can be set to use IPv6 addresses if Astra Trident was installed using the `--use-ipv6` flag. IPv6 addresses must be defined in square brackets, such as [28e8:d9fb:a825:b7bf:69a8:d02f:9e7b:3555].  

|

|`autoExportPolicy`	
|Enable automatic export policy creation and updating [Boolean]. 

Using the `autoExportPolicy` and `autoExportCIDRs` options, Astra Trident can manage export policies automatically. 
|"false"

|`autoExportCIDRs` 
|List of CIDRs to filter Kubernetes’ node IPs against when `autoExportPolicy` is enabled. 

Using the `autoExportPolicy` and `autoExportCIDRs` options, Astra Trident can manage export policies automatically.	
|"[“0.0.0.0/0”, “::/0”]"

|`labels` 
|Set of arbitrary JSON-formatted labels to apply on volumes 
|""

|`clientCertificate`	
|Base64-encoded value of client certificate. Used for certificate-based auth 
|""

|`clientPrivateKey`	
|Base64-encoded value of client private key. Used for certificate-based auth	
|""

|`trustedCACertificate` 
|Base64-encoded value of trusted CA certificate. Optional. Used for certificate-based authentication.  
|""

|`username` 
|Username to connect to the cluster or SVM. Used for credential-based authentication. For example, vsadmin.
|

|`password` 
|Password to connect to the cluster or SVM. Used for credential-based authentication. 
|

|`svm` 
|Storage virtual machine to use 
|Derived if an SVM managementLIF is specified.

|`igroupName` 
|Name of the igroup for SAN volumes to use. Refer to <<Details about `igroupName`>>. 
|“trident-<backend-UUID>”

|`storagePrefix` 
|Prefix used when provisioning new volumes in the SVM. 

Cannot be modified after creation. To update this parameter, you will need to create a new backend.
|“trident”

|`limitAggregateUsage` |*Do not specify for Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP.* 

The provided `fsxadmin` and `vsadmin` do not contain the permissions required to retrieve aggregate usage and limit it using Astra Trident.

|Do not use.

|`limitVolumeSize` 
|Fail provisioning if requested volume size is above this value. 

Also restricts the maximum size of the volumes it manages for qtrees and LUNs, and the `qtreesPerFlexvol` option allows customizing the maximum number of qtrees per FlexVol. 

|“” (not enforced by default)

|`lunsPerFlexvol` 
|Maximum LUNs per Flexvol, must be in range [50, 200]. 

SAN only. 
|"100"

|`debugTraceFlags` 
|Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example, {“api”:false, “method”:true} 

Do not use `debugTraceFlags` unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump.
|null

|`nfsMountOptions`	
|Comma-separated list of NFS mount options. 

The mount options for Kubernetes-persistent volumes are normally specified in storage classes, but if no mount options are specified in a storage class, Astra Trident will fall back to using the mount options specified in the storage backend's configuration file. 

If no mount options are specified in the storage class or the configuration file, Astra Trident will not set any mount options on an associated persistent volume.	
|""

| `nasType` | Configure NFS or SMB volumes creation. 

Options are `nfs`, `smb`, or null. 

*Must set to `smb` for SMB volumes.* Setting to null defaults to NFS volumes. 
| "nfs"

|`qtreesPerFlexvol`	
|Maximum Qtrees per FlexVol, must be in range [50, 300]	
|"200"

|`smbShare` 
|Name of the SMB share created using Shared Folder Microsoft Management Console. 

*Required for SMB volumes.* 

|"smb-share"

|`useREST` 
|Boolean parameter to use ONTAP REST APIs. *Tech preview* 

`useREST` is provided as a **tech preview** that is recommended for test environments and not for production workloads. When set to `true`, Astra Trident will use ONTAP REST APIs to communicate with the backend. 

This feature requires ONTAP 9.11.1 and later. In addition, the ONTAP login role used must have access to the `ontap` application. This is satisfied by the pre-defined `vsadmin` and `cluster-admin` roles.
|"false"

|===

=== Details about `igroupName`
`igroupName` can be set to an igroup that is already created on the ONTAP cluster. If unspecified, Astra Trident automatically creates an igroup named `trident-<backend-UUID>`. 

If providing a pre-defined igroupName, we recommend using one igroup per Kubernetes cluster, if the SVM is to be shared between environments. This is necessary for Astra Trident to automatically maintain IQN additions and deletions.

* `igroupName` can be updated to point to a new igroup that is created and managed on the SVM outside of Astra Trident.
* `igroupName` can be omitted. In this case, Astra Trident will create and manage an igroup named `trident-<backend-UUID>`  automatically.

In both cases, volume attachments will continue to be accessible. Future volume attachments will use the updated igroup. This update does not disrupt access to volumes present on the backend.

=== Update `dataLIF` after initial configuration
You can change the data LIF after initial configuration by running the following command to provide the new backend JSON file with updated data LIF.

----
tridentctl update backend <backend-name> -f <path-to-backend-json-file-with-updated-dataLIF>
----

NOTE: If PVCs are attached to one or multiple pods, you must bring down all corresponding pods and then bring them back up in order to for the new data LIF to take effect. 


== Backend configuration options for provisioning volumes

You can control default provisioning using these options in the `defaults` section of the configuration. For an example, see the configuration examples below.

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`spaceAllocation` |Space-allocation for LUNs |“true”

|`spaceReserve` |Space reservation mode; “none” (thin) or “volume” (thick) |“none”

|`snapshotPolicy` |Snapshot policy to use |“none”

|`qosPolicy` |QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool or backend. 

Using QoS policy groups with Astra Trident requires ONTAP 9.8 or later. 

We recommend using a non-shared QoS policy group and ensuring the policy group is applied to each constituent individually. A shared QoS policy group will enforce the ceiling for the total throughput of all workloads.

|“”

|`adaptiveQosPolicy` |Adaptive QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool or backend. 

Not supported by ontap-nas-economy. 
|“”

|`snapshotReserve` |Percentage of volume reserved for snapshots	“0” |If `snapshotPolicy` is “none”, else “”

|`splitOnClone` |Split a clone from its parent upon creation |“false”

|`encryption` |Enable NetApp Volume Encryption (NVE) on the new volume; defaults to `false`. NVE must be licensed and enabled on the cluster to use this option. 

If NAE is enabled on the backend, any volume provisioned in Astra Trident will be NAE enabled. 

For more information, refer to: link:../trident-reco/security-reco.html[How Astra Trident works with NVE and NAE]. |“false”

|`luksEncryption` 
| Enable LUKS encryption. Refer to link:../trident-reco/security-reco.html#Use-Linux-Unified-Key-Setup-(LUKS)[Use Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS)]. 

SAN only. 
| ""


|`tieringPolicy` 
|Tiering policy to use	“none” 
|“snapshot-only” for pre-ONTAP 9.5 SVM-DR configuration

|`unixPermissions`	|Mode for new volumes. 

*Leave empty for SMB volumes.*	
|“"

|`securityStyle` |Security style for new volumes. |“unix” for NFS volumes; "ntfs" for SMB volumes

|===

== Example
Using `nasType`, `node-stage-secret-name`, and `node-stage-secret-namespace`, you can specify an SMB volume and provide the required Active Directory credentials.
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: nas-smb-sc
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "ontap-nas"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "smbcreds"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: "default"
----

Commit message:

note for ontap-nas only

trident-use/trident-fsx-examples.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/trident-fsx-examples.html
keywords: map backends, storage classes, trident backend, ontap-nas, ontap-nas-economy, ontap-nas-flexgroups, options, storageclasses, fsx
summary: Learn about backend configuration options for Amazon FSx for ONTAP. This section provides backend configuration examples.
---

= FSx for ONTAP configuration options and examples
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Learn about backend configuration options for Amazon FSx for ONTAP. This section provides backend configuration examples.

== Backend configuration options

See the following table for the backend configuration options:

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Example

|`version` 
| 
|Always 1

|`storageDriverName` 
| Name of the storage driver 
|“ontap-nas”, “ontap-nas-economy”, “ontap-nas-flexgroup”, “ontap-san”, “ontap-san-economy”

|`backendName`  
|Custom name or the storage backend 
| Driver name + “_” + dataLIF

|`managementLIF` 
|IP address of a cluster or SVM management LIF 

For seamless MetroCluster switchover, you must specify an SVM management LIF.

A fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) can be specified.

Can be set to use IPv6 addresses if Astra Trident was installed using the `--use-ipv6` flag. IPv6 addresses must be defined in square brackets, such as [28e8:d9fb:a825:b7bf:69a8:d02f:9e7b:3555].  
|“10.0.0.1”, “[2001:1234:abcd::fefe]”

|`dataLIF` 
|IP address of protocol LIF. 

*ONTAP NAS drivers*: We recommend specifying dataLIF. If not provided, Astra Trident fetches data LIFs from the SVM. You can specify a fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) to be used for the NFS mount operations, allowing you to create a round-robin DNS to load-balance across multiple data LIFs. Can be changed after initial setting. Refer to <<Update `dataLIF` after initial configuration>>. 

*ONTAP SAN drivers*: Do not specify for iSCSI. Astra Trident uses ONTAP Selective LUN Map to discover the iSCI LIFs needed to establish a multi path session. A warning is generated if dataLIF is explicitly defined.

Can be set to use IPv6 addresses if Astra Trident was installed using the `--use-ipv6` flag. IPv6 addresses must be defined in square brackets, such as [28e8:d9fb:a825:b7bf:69a8:d02f:9e7b:3555].  

|

|`autoExportPolicy`	
|Enable automatic export policy creation and updating [Boolean]. 

Using the `autoExportPolicy` and `autoExportCIDRs` options, Astra Trident can manage export policies automatically. 
|"false"

|`autoExportCIDRs` 
|List of CIDRs to filter Kubernetes’ node IPs against when `autoExportPolicy` is enabled. 

Using the `autoExportPolicy` and `autoExportCIDRs` options, Astra Trident can manage export policies automatically.	
|"[“0.0.0.0/0”, “::/0”]"

|`labels` 
|Set of arbitrary JSON-formatted labels to apply on volumes 
|""

|`clientCertificate`	
|Base64-encoded value of client certificate. Used for certificate-based auth 
|""

|`clientPrivateKey`	
|Base64-encoded value of client private key. Used for certificate-based auth	
|""

|`trustedCACertificate` 
|Base64-encoded value of trusted CA certificate. Optional. Used for certificate-based authentication.  
|""

|`username` 
|Username to connect to the cluster or SVM. Used for credential-based authentication. For example, vsadmin.
|

|`password` 
|Password to connect to the cluster or SVM. Used for credential-based authentication. 
|

|`svm` 
|Storage virtual machine to use 
|Derived if an SVM managementLIF is specified.

|`igroupName` 
|Name of the igroup for SAN volumes to use. Refer to <<Details about `igroupName`>>. 
|“trident-<backend-UUID>”

|`storagePrefix` 
|Prefix used when provisioning new volumes in the SVM. 

Cannot be modified after creation. To update this parameter, you will need to create a new backend.
|“trident”

|`limitAggregateUsage` |*Do not specify for Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP.* 

The provided `fsxadmin` and `vsadmin` do not contain the permissions required to retrieve aggregate usage and limit it using Astra Trident.

|Do not use.

|`limitVolumeSize` 
|Fail provisioning if requested volume size is above this value. 

Also restricts the maximum size of the volumes it manages for qtrees and LUNs, and the `qtreesPerFlexvol` option allows customizing the maximum number of qtrees per FlexVol. 

|“” (not enforced by default)

|`lunsPerFlexvol` 
|Maximum LUNs per Flexvol, must be in range [50, 200]. 

SAN only. 
|"100"

|`debugTraceFlags` 
|Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example, {“api”:false, “method”:true} 

Do not use `debugTraceFlags` unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump.
|null

|`nfsMountOptions`	
|Comma-separated list of NFS mount options. 

The mount options for Kubernetes-persistent volumes are normally specified in storage classes, but if no mount options are specified in a storage class, Astra Trident will fall back to using the mount options specified in the storage backend's configuration file. 

If no mount options are specified in the storage class or the configuration file, Astra Trident will not set any mount options on an associated persistent volume.	
|""

| `nasType` | Configure NFS or SMB volumes creation. 

Options are `nfs`, `smb`, or null. 

*Must set to `smb` for SMB volumes.* Setting to null defaults to NFS volumes. 
| "nfs"

|`qtreesPerFlexvol`	
|Maximum Qtrees per FlexVol, must be in range [50, 300]	
|"200"

|`smbShare` 
|Name of the SMB share created using Shared Folder Microsoft Management Console. 

*Required for SMB volumes.* 

|"smb-share"

|`useREST` 
|Boolean parameter to use ONTAP REST APIs. *Tech preview* 

`useREST` is provided as a **tech preview** that is recommended for test environments and not for production workloads. When set to `true`, Astra Trident will use ONTAP REST APIs to communicate with the backend. 

This feature requires ONTAP 9.11.1 and later. In addition, the ONTAP login role used must have access to the `ontap` application. This is satisfied by the pre-defined `vsadmin` and `cluster-admin` roles.
|"false"

|===

=== Details about `igroupName`
`igroupName` can be set to an igroup that is already created on the ONTAP cluster. If unspecified, Astra Trident automatically creates an igroup named `trident-<backend-UUID>`. 

If providing a pre-defined igroupName, we recommend using one igroup per Kubernetes cluster, if the SVM is to be shared between environments. This is necessary for Astra Trident to automatically maintain IQN additions and deletions.

* `igroupName` can be updated to point to a new igroup that is created and managed on the SVM outside of Astra Trident.
* `igroupName` can be omitted. In this case, Astra Trident will create and manage an igroup named `trident-<backend-UUID>`  automatically.

In both cases, volume attachments will continue to be accessible. Future volume attachments will use the updated igroup. This update does not disrupt access to volumes present on the backend.

=== Update `dataLIF` after initial configuration
You can change the data LIF after initial configuration by running the following command to provide the new backend JSON file with updated data LIF.

----
tridentctl update backend <backend-name> -f <path-to-backend-json-file-with-updated-dataLIF>
----

NOTE: If PVCs are attached to one or multiple pods, you must bring down all corresponding pods and then bring them back up in order to for the new data LIF to take effect. 


== Backend configuration options for provisioning volumes

You can control default provisioning using these options in the `defaults` section of the configuration. For an example, see the configuration examples below.

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`spaceAllocation` |Space-allocation for LUNs |“true”

|`spaceReserve` |Space reservation mode; “none” (thin) or “volume” (thick) |“none”

|`snapshotPolicy` |Snapshot policy to use |“none”

|`qosPolicy` |QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool or backend. 

Using QoS policy groups with Astra Trident requires ONTAP 9.8 or later. 

We recommend using a non-shared QoS policy group and ensuring the policy group is applied to each constituent individually. A shared QoS policy group will enforce the ceiling for the total throughput of all workloads.

|“”

|`adaptiveQosPolicy` |Adaptive QoS policy group to assign for volumes created. Choose one of qosPolicy or adaptiveQosPolicy per storage pool or backend. 

Not supported by ontap-nas-economy. 
|“”

|`snapshotReserve` |Percentage of volume reserved for snapshots	“0” |If `snapshotPolicy` is “none”, else “”

|`splitOnClone` |Split a clone from its parent upon creation |“false”

|`encryption` |Enable NetApp Volume Encryption (NVE) on the new volume; defaults to `false`. NVE must be licensed and enabled on the cluster to use this option. 

If NAE is enabled on the backend, any volume provisioned in Astra Trident will be NAE enabled. 

For more information, refer to: link:../trident-reco/security-reco.html[How Astra Trident works with NVE and NAE]. |“false”

|`luksEncryption` 
| Enable LUKS encryption. Refer to link:../trident-reco/security-reco.html#Use-Linux-Unified-Key-Setup-(LUKS)[Use Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS)]. 

SAN only. 
| ""


|`tieringPolicy` 
|Tiering policy to use	“none” 
|“snapshot-only” for pre-ONTAP 9.5 SVM-DR configuration

|`unixPermissions`	|Mode for new volumes. 

*Leave empty for SMB volumes.*	
|“"

|`securityStyle` |Security style for new volumes. |“unix” for NFS volumes; "ntfs" for SMB volumes

|===

== Example
Using `nasType`, `node-stage-secret-name`, and `node-stage-secret-namespace`, you can specify an SMB volume and provide the required Active Directory credentials. SMB volumes are supported using the `ontap-nas` driver only. 
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: nas-smb-sc
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  backendType: "ontap-nas"
  trident.netapp.io/nasType: "smb"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-name: "smbcreds"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-stage-secret-namespace: "default"
----
