trident-use/vol-import.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/vol-import.html
keywords: volumes, on-demand volume snapshots, import volumes, drivers, tridentctl import, pv, persistent volumes
summary: You can import existing storage volumes as a Kubernetes PV using `tridentctl import`.
---

= Import volumes
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can import existing storage volumes as a Kubernetes PV using `tridentctl import`.

== Overview

You might consider importing a volume into Astra Trident to: 

* Containerize an application and reuse its existing data set
* Use a clone of a data set for an ephemeral application
* Rebuild a failed Kubernetes cluster
* Migrate application data during disaster recovery

IMPORTANT: An ONTAP volume must be of type rw to be imported by Astra Trident. If a volume is of type dp, it is a SnapMirror destination volume; you should break the mirror relationship before importing the volume into Astra Trident.

=== Considerations
Before importing a volume, review the following considerations. 

* Though `StorageClass` must be specified on a PVC, Astra Trident does not use this parameter during import. Storage classes are used during volume creation to select from available pools based on storage characteristics. Because the volume already exists, no pool selection is required during import. Therefore, the import will not fail even if the volume exists on a backend or pool that does not match the storage class specified in the PVC.
* The existing volume size is determined and set in the PVC. After the volume is imported by the storage driver, the PV is created with a ClaimRef to the PVC. 
** The reclaim policy is initially set to `retain` in the PV. After Kubernetes successfully binds the PVC and PV, the reclaim policy is updated to match the reclaim policy of the Storage Class. 
** If the reclaim policy of the Storage Class is `delete`, the storage volume will be deleted when the PV is deleted.
* By default, Astra Trident will manage the PVC and rename the FlexVol and LUN on the backend. You can pass the `--no-manage` flag to import as an unmanaged volume. If you use `--no-manage`, Astra Trident does not perform any additional operations on the PVC or PV for the lifecycle of the objects. The storage volume is not deleted when the PV is deleted and other operations such as volume clone and volume resize are also ignored. 
+
TIP: This option is useful if you want to use Kubernetes for containerized workloads but otherwise want to manage the lifecycle of the storage volume outside of Kubernetes.

* An annotation is added to the PVC and PV that serves a dual purpose of indicating that the volume was imported and if the PVC and PV are managed. This annotation should not be modified or removed.

== Import a volume
You can use `tridentctl import` to import a volume. 

.Steps 
. Create the Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) file (for example, `pvc.yaml`) that will be used by the volume import process to create the PVC. The PVC file should include `name`, `namespace`, `accessModes`, and `storageClassName`. You can optionally specify unixPermissions in your PVC definition. For example:
+
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my_claim
  namespace: my_namespace
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: my_storage_class
----
+
WARNING: Don't include additional parameters such as PV name or volume size. This can cause the import command to fail. 

. Use the `tridentctl import` command to specify the name of the Astra Trident backend containing the volume and the name that uniquely identifies the volume on the storage (for example: ONTAP FlexVol, Element Volume, Cloud Volumes Service path). The `-f` argument is required to specify the path to the PVC  file.
+
----
tridentctl import volume <backendName> <volumeName> -f <path-to-pvc-file>
----

== ONTAP NAS and ONTAP NAS FlexGroup
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-economy`, and `ontap-nas-flexgroup` drivers. 

[NOTE]
====
* The `ontap-nas-economy` driver cannot import and manage qtrees. 
* The `ontap-nas` and `ontap-nas-flexgroup` drivers do not allow duplicate volume names.
====

Each volume created with the `ontap-nas` driver is a FlexVol on the ONTAP cluster. Importing FlexVols with the `ontap-nas` driver works the same. A FlexVol that already exists on an ONTAP cluster can be imported as a `ontap-nas` PVC. Similarly, FlexGroup vols can be imported as `ontap-nas-flexgroup` PVCs.

=== Examples

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Managed volume
--
The following example imports a volume named `managed_volume` on a backend named `ontap_nas`:
----
tridentctl import volume ontap_nas managed_volume -f <path-to-pvc-file>

+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-bf5ad463-afbb-11e9-8d9f-5254004dfdb7 | 1.0 GiB | standard      | file     | c5a6f6a4-b052-423b-80d4-8fb491a14a22 | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
--

.Unmanaged volume
--
When using the `--no-manage` argument, Trident does not rename the volume or validate if the volume was mounted. The volume import operation will fail if the volume was not mounted manually.

The following example imports `unmanaged_volume` on the `ontap_nas` backend:
----
tridentctl import volume nas_blog unmanaged_volume -f <path-to-pvc-file> --no-manage

+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-df07d542-afbc-11e9-8d9f-5254004dfdb7 | 1.0 GiB | standard      | file     | c5a6f6a4-b052-423b-80d4-8fb491a14a22 | online | false   |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
--
====

// end tabbed area

== ONTAP SAN
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `ontap-san` driver. 

Astra Trident can import ONTAP SAN FlexVols that contain a single LUN. This is consistent with the `ontap-san` driver, which creates a FlexVol for each PVC and a LUN within the FlexVol. Astra Trident imports the FlexVol and associates it with the PVC definition. 

TIP: We suggest importing volumes that do not have existing active connections. If you are looking to import an actively used volume, clone the volume first and then do the import.

=== Examples 

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Managed volume
--
For managed volumes, Astra Trident renames the FlexVol to the `pvc-<uuid>` format and the LUN within the FlexVol to `lun0`.

The following example imports the `ontap-san-managed` FlexVol that is present on the `ontap_san_default` backend:
----
tridentctl import volume ontapsan_san_default ontap-san-managed -f pvc-basic-import.yaml -n trident -d

+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE  | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-d6ee4f54-4e40-4454-92fd-d00fc228d74a | 20 MiB | basic         | block    | cd394786-ddd5-4470-adc3-10c5ce4ca757 | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
--
.Unmanaged volume
--
The following example imports `unmanaged_example_volume` on the `ontap_san` backend:
----
tridentctl import volume -n trident san_blog unmanaged_example_volume -f pvc-import.yaml --no-manage
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-1fc999c9-ce8c-459c-82e4-ed4380a4b228 | 1.0 GiB | san-blog      | block    | e3275890-7d80-4af6-90cc-c7a0759f555a | online | false   |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
[WARNING]
=====
If you have LUNS mapped to igroups that share an IQN with the cluster IQN, as shown in the following example, you will receive the error: `LUN already mapped to initiator(s) in this group`. 

image:./san-import-igroup.png[Image of LUNS mapped to iqn and cluster iqn.]

You will need to remove the initiator or unmap the LUN to import the volume. 
=====

--
====


== Element
Astra Trident supports NetApp Element software/NetApp HCI volume import using the `solidfire-san` driver. 

=== Example
The following example imports an `element-managed` volume on backend `element_default`.
----
tridentctl import volume element_default element-managed -f pvc-basic-import.yaml -n trident -d

+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE  | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-970ce1ca-2096-4ecd-8545-ac7edc24a8fe | 10 GiB | basic-element | block    | d3ba047a-ea0b-43f9-9c42-e38e58301c49 | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: The Element driver supports duplicate volume names. However, Astra Trident returns an error if there are duplicate volume names. As a workaround, clone the volume, provide a unique volume name, and import the cloned volume.

== Google Cloud Platform 
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `gcp-cvs` driver. 

NOTE: To import a volume backed by the NetApp Cloud Volumes Service in Google Cloud Platform, identify the volume by its volume path instead of its name.

=== Example
The following example imports a `gcp-cvs` volume on backend `gcpcvs_YEppr` with the volume path of `adroit-jolly-swift`.
----
tridentctl import volume gcpcvs_YEppr adroit-jolly-swift -f <path-to-pvc-file> -n trident

+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE  | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-a46ccab7-44aa-4433-94b1-e47fc8c0fa55 | 93 GiB | gcp-storage   | file     | e1a6e65b-299e-4568-ad05-4f0a105c888f | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: The volume path is the portion of the volume’s export path after the :/. For example, if the export path is `10.0.0.1:/adroit-jolly-swift`, the volume path is `adroit-jolly-swift`.

== Azure NetApp Files
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `azure-netapp-files` and `azure-netapp-files-subvolume` drivers.

=== Example
The following example imports an `azure-netapp-files` volume on backend `azurenetappfiles_40517` with the volume path `importvol1`. 
----
tridentctl import volume azurenetappfiles_40517 importvol1 -f <path-to-pvc-file> -n trident

+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-0ee95d60-fd5c-448d-b505-b72901b3a4ab | 100 GiB | anf-storage   | file     | 1c01274f-d94b-44a3-98a3-04c953c9a51e | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: The volume path for the ANF volume is present in the mount path after the :/. For example, if the mount path is `10.0.0.2:/importvol1`, the volume path is `importvol1`.

Commit message:

updates from review & additional org changes

trident-use/vol-import.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/vol-import.html
keywords: volumes, on-demand volume snapshots, import volumes, drivers, tridentctl import, pv, persistent volumes
summary: You can import existing storage volumes as a Kubernetes PV using `tridentctl import`.
---

= Import volumes
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can import existing storage volumes as a Kubernetes PV using `tridentctl import`.

== Overview and considerations

You might consider importing a volume into Astra Trident to: 

* Containerize an application and reuse its existing data set
* Use a clone of a data set for an ephemeral application
* Rebuild a failed Kubernetes cluster
* Migrate application data during disaster recovery

.Considerations
Before importing a volume, review the following considerations. 

* Astra Trident can import RW (read-write) type ONTAP volumes only. DP (data protection) type volumes are SnapMirror destination volumes. You should break the mirror relationship before importing the volume into Astra Trident.
* Though `StorageClass` must be specified on a PVC, Astra Trident does not use this parameter during import. Storage classes are used during volume creation to select from available pools based on storage characteristics. Because the volume already exists, no pool selection is required during import. Therefore, the import will not fail even if the volume exists on a backend or pool that does not match the storage class specified in the PVC.
* The existing volume size is determined and set in the PVC. After the volume is imported by the storage driver, the PV is created with a ClaimRef to the PVC. 
** The reclaim policy is initially set to `retain` in the PV. After Kubernetes successfully binds the PVC and PV, the reclaim policy is updated to match the reclaim policy of the Storage Class. 
** If the reclaim policy of the Storage Class is `delete`, the storage volume will be deleted when the PV is deleted.
* By default, Astra Trident manages the PVC and renames the FlexVol and LUN on the backend. You can pass the `--no-manage` flag to import as an unmanaged volume. If you use `--no-manage`, Astra Trident does not perform any additional operations on the PVC or PV for the lifecycle of the objects. The storage volume is not deleted when the PV is deleted and other operations such as volume clone and volume resize are also ignored. 
+
TIP: This option is useful if you want to use Kubernetes for containerized workloads but otherwise want to manage the lifecycle of the storage volume outside of Kubernetes.

* An annotation is added to the PVC and PV that serves a dual purpose of indicating that the volume was imported and if the PVC and PV are managed. This annotation should not be modified or removed.

== Import a volume
You can use `tridentctl import` to import a volume. 

.Steps 
. Create the Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) file (for example, `pvc.yaml`) that will be used by the volume import process to create the PVC. The PVC file should include `name`, `namespace`, `accessModes`, and `storageClassName`. You can optionally specify unixPermissions in your PVC definition. For example:
+
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my_claim
  namespace: my_namespace
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: my_storage_class
----
+
WARNING: Don't include additional parameters such as PV name or volume size. This can cause the import command to fail. 

. Use the `tridentctl import` command to specify the name of the Astra Trident backend containing the volume and the name that uniquely identifies the volume on the storage (for example: ONTAP FlexVol, Element Volume, Cloud Volumes Service path). The `-f` argument is required to specify the path to the PVC  file.
+
----
tridentctl import volume <backendName> <volumeName> -f <path-to-pvc-file>
----

== Examples
Review the following volume import examples for the supported drivers.

=== ONTAP NAS and ONTAP NAS FlexGroup
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `ontap-nas` and `ontap-nas-flexgroup` drivers. 

[NOTE]
====
* The `ontap-nas-economy` driver cannot import and manage qtrees. 
* The `ontap-nas` and `ontap-nas-flexgroup` drivers do not allow duplicate volume names.
====

Each volume created with the `ontap-nas` driver is a FlexVol on the ONTAP cluster. Importing FlexVols with the `ontap-nas` driver works the same. A FlexVol that already exists on an ONTAP cluster can be imported as a `ontap-nas` PVC. Similarly, FlexGroup vols can be imported as `ontap-nas-flexgroup` PVCs.

.ONTAP NAS examples
The following show an example of a managed volume and an unmanaged volume import. 

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Managed volume
--
The following example imports a volume named `managed_volume` on a backend named `ontap_nas`:
----
tridentctl import volume ontap_nas managed_volume -f <path-to-pvc-file>

+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-bf5ad463-afbb-11e9-8d9f-5254004dfdb7 | 1.0 GiB | standard      | file     | c5a6f6a4-b052-423b-80d4-8fb491a14a22 | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
--

.Unmanaged volume
--
When using the `--no-manage` argument, Trident does not rename the volume or validate if the volume was mounted. The volume import operation will fail if the volume was not mounted manually.

The following example imports `unmanaged_volume` on the `ontap_nas` backend:
----
tridentctl import volume nas_blog unmanaged_volume -f <path-to-pvc-file> --no-manage

+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-df07d542-afbc-11e9-8d9f-5254004dfdb7 | 1.0 GiB | standard      | file     | c5a6f6a4-b052-423b-80d4-8fb491a14a22 | online | false   |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
--
====

// end tabbed area

=== ONTAP SAN
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `ontap-san` driver. 

Astra Trident can import ONTAP SAN FlexVols that contain a single LUN. This is consistent with the `ontap-san` driver, which creates a FlexVol for each PVC and a LUN within the FlexVol. Astra Trident imports the FlexVol and associates it with the PVC definition. 

TIP: We suggest importing volumes without active connections. To import an actively-used volume, clone the volume and then perform the import.

.ONTAP SAN examples
The following show an example of a managed volume and an unmanaged volume import. 

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Managed volume
--
For managed volumes, Astra Trident renames the FlexVol to the `pvc-<uuid>` format and the LUN within the FlexVol to `lun0`.

The following example imports the `ontap-san-managed` FlexVol that is present on the `ontap_san_default` backend:
----
tridentctl import volume ontapsan_san_default ontap-san-managed -f pvc-basic-import.yaml -n trident -d

+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE  | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-d6ee4f54-4e40-4454-92fd-d00fc228d74a | 20 MiB | basic         | block    | cd394786-ddd5-4470-adc3-10c5ce4ca757 | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
--
.Unmanaged volume
--
The following example imports `unmanaged_example_volume` on the `ontap_san` backend:
----
tridentctl import volume -n trident san_blog unmanaged_example_volume -f pvc-import.yaml --no-manage
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-1fc999c9-ce8c-459c-82e4-ed4380a4b228 | 1.0 GiB | san-blog      | block    | e3275890-7d80-4af6-90cc-c7a0759f555a | online | false   |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----
[WARNING]
=====
If you have LUNS mapped to igroups that share an IQN with the cluster IQN, as shown in the following example, you will receive the error: `LUN already mapped to initiator(s) in this group`. 

image:./san-import-igroup.png[Image of LUNS mapped to iqn and cluster iqn.]

You will need to remove the initiator or unmap the LUN to import the volume. 
=====

--
====


=== Element
Astra Trident supports NetApp Element software/NetApp HCI volume import using the `solidfire-san` driver. 

.Element example
The following example imports an `element-managed` volume on backend `element_default`.
----
tridentctl import volume element_default element-managed -f pvc-basic-import.yaml -n trident -d

+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE  | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-970ce1ca-2096-4ecd-8545-ac7edc24a8fe | 10 GiB | basic-element | block    | d3ba047a-ea0b-43f9-9c42-e38e58301c49 | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: The Element driver supports duplicate volume names. However, Astra Trident returns an error if there are duplicate volume names. As a workaround, clone the volume, provide a unique volume name, and import the cloned volume.

=== Google Cloud Platform 
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `gcp-cvs` driver. 

NOTE: To import a volume backed by the NetApp Cloud Volumes Service in Google Cloud Platform, identify the volume by its volume path instead of its name.

.Google Cloud Platform example

The following example imports a `gcp-cvs` volume on backend `gcpcvs_YEppr` with the volume path of `adroit-jolly-swift`.
----
tridentctl import volume gcpcvs_YEppr adroit-jolly-swift -f <path-to-pvc-file> -n trident

+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE  | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-a46ccab7-44aa-4433-94b1-e47fc8c0fa55 | 93 GiB | gcp-storage   | file     | e1a6e65b-299e-4568-ad05-4f0a105c888f | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+--------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: The volume path is the portion of the volume’s export path after the :/. For example, if the export path is `10.0.0.1:/adroit-jolly-swift`, the volume path is `adroit-jolly-swift`.

=== Azure NetApp Files
Astra Trident supports volume import using the `azure-netapp-files` and `azure-netapp-files-subvolume` drivers.

.Azure NetApp Files example

The following example imports an `azure-netapp-files` volume on backend `azurenetappfiles_40517` with the volume path `importvol1`. 
----
tridentctl import volume azurenetappfiles_40517 importvol1 -f <path-to-pvc-file> -n trident

+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
|                   NAME                   |  SIZE   | STORAGE CLASS | PROTOCOL |             BACKEND UUID             | STATE  | MANAGED |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
| pvc-0ee95d60-fd5c-448d-b505-b72901b3a4ab | 100 GiB | anf-storage   | file     | 1c01274f-d94b-44a3-98a3-04c953c9a51e | online | true    |
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+----------+--------------------------------------+--------+---------+
----

NOTE: The volume path for the ANF volume is present in the mount path after the :/. For example, if the mount path is `10.0.0.2:/importvol1`, the volume path is `importvol1`.
