trident-use/vol-snapshots.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/vol-snapshots.html
keywords: volumes, on-demand volume snapshots, create snapshots, backends, kubernetes, create PVCs, PVCs
summary: You can create Kubernetes VolumeSnapshots (volume snapshot) of Persistent Volumes (PVs) to maintain point-in-time copies of Astra Trident volumes. Additionally, you can create a new volume, also known as a _clone_, from an existing volume snapshot. Volume snapshot is supported by `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, `ontap-san`, `ontap-san-economy`, `solidfire-san`, `gcp-cvs`, and `azure-netapp-files` drivers.
---

= Work with snapshots
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can create Kubernetes VolumeSnapshots (volume snapshot) of Persistent Volumes (PVs) to maintain point-in-time copies of Astra Trident volumes. Additionally, you can create a new volume, also known as a _clone_, from an existing volume snapshot. Volume snapshot is supported by `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, `ontap-san`, `ontap-san-economy`, `solidfire-san`, `gcp-cvs`, and `azure-netapp-files` drivers.

.Before you begin

You must have an external snapshot controller and Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs). This is the responsibility of the Kubernetes orchestrator (for example: Kubeadm, GKE, OpenShift). 

If your Kubernetes distribution does not include the snapshot controller and CRDs, refer to <<Deploying a volume snapshot controller>>.

NOTE: Don't create a snapshot controller if creating on-demand volume snapshots in a GKE environment. GKE uses a built-in, hidden snapshot controller.

== Step 1: Create a `VolumeSnapshotClass`

This example creates a volume snapshot class. 

----
cat snap-sc.yaml
apiVersion: snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: VolumeSnapshotClass
metadata:
  name: csi-snapclass
driver: csi.trident.netapp.io
deletionPolicy: Delete
----

The `driver` points to the Astra Trident CSI driver. `deletionPolicy` can be `Delete` or `Retain`. When set to `Retain`, the underlying physical snapshot on the storage cluster is retained even when the `VolumeSnapshot` object is deleted.

For more information, refer to link:../trident-reference/objects.html#kubernetes-volumesnapshotclass-objects[`VolumeSnapshotClass`].

== Step 2: Create a snapshot of an existing PVC

This example creates a snapshot of an existing PVC.
----
cat snap.yaml
apiVersion: snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: VolumeSnapshot
metadata:
  name: pvc1-snap
spec:
  volumeSnapshotClassName: csi-snapclass
  source:
    persistentVolumeClaimName: pvc1
----

In this example, the snapshot is created for a PVC named `pvc1` and the name of the snapshot is set to `pvc1-snap`.

----
kubectl create -f snap.yaml
volumesnapshot.snapshot.storage.k8s.io/pvc1-snap created

kubectl get volumesnapshots
NAME                   AGE
pvc1-snap              50s
----
This created a `VolumeSnapshot` object. A VolumeSnapshot is analogous to a PVC and is associated with a `VolumeSnapshotContent` object that represents the actual snapshot.

It is possible to identify the `VolumeSnapshotContent` object for the `pvc1-snap` VolumeSnapshot by describing it.

----
kubectl describe volumesnapshots pvc1-snap
Name:         pvc1-snap
Namespace:    default
.
.
.
Spec:
  Snapshot Class Name:    pvc1-snap
  Snapshot Content Name:  snapcontent-e8d8a0ca-9826-11e9-9807-525400f3f660
  Source:
    API Group:
    Kind:       PersistentVolumeClaim
    Name:       pvc1
Status:
  Creation Time:  2019-06-26T15:27:29Z
  Ready To Use:   true
  Restore Size:   3Gi
.
.
----

The `Snapshot Content Name` identifies the VolumeSnapshotContent object which serves this snapshot. The `Ready To Use` parameter indicates that the Snapshot can be used to create a new PVC.

== Step 3: Create PVCs from VolumeSnapshots

This example creates a PVC using a snapshot:

----
cat pvc-from-snap.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: pvc-from-snap
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: golden
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 3Gi
  dataSource:
    name: pvc1-snap
    kind: VolumeSnapshot
    apiGroup: snapshot.storage.k8s.io
----

`dataSource` shows that the PVC must be created using a VolumeSnapshot named `pvc1-snap` as the source of the data. This instructs Astra Trident to create a PVC from the snapshot. After the PVC is created, it can be attached to a pod and used just like any other PVC.

NOTE: When deleting a Persistent Volume with associated snapshots, the corresponding Trident volume is updated to a “Deleting state”. For the Astra Trident volume to be deleted, the snapshots of the volume should be removed.

== Deploying a volume snapshot controller

If your Kubernetes distribution does not include the snapshot controller and CRDs, you can deploy them as follows.

.Steps

. Create volume snapshot CRDs.
+
----
cat snapshot-setup.sh
#!/bin/bash
# Create volume snapshot CRDs
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/client/config/crd/snapshot.storage.k8s.io_volumesnapshotclasses.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/client/config/crd/snapshot.storage.k8s.io_volumesnapshotcontents.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/client/config/crd/snapshot.storage.k8s.io_volumesnapshots.yaml
----

. Create the snapshot controller. 
+
----
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/deploy/kubernetes/snapshot-controller/rbac-snapshot-controller.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/deploy/kubernetes/snapshot-controller/setup-snapshot-controller.yaml
----
+
NOTE: If necessary, open `deploy/kubernetes/snapshot-controller/rbac-snapshot-controller.yaml` and update `namespace` to your namespace.

== Recover volume data using snapshots
The snapshot directory is hidden by default to facilitate maximum compatibility of volumes provisioned using the `ontap-nas` and `ontap-nas-economy` drivers. Enable the `.snapshot` directory to recover data from snapshots directly.

Use the volume snapshot restore ONTAP CLI to to restore a volume to a state recorded in a prior snapshot. 

----
cluster1::*> volume snapshot restore -vserver vs0 -volume vol3 -snapshot vol3_snap_archive
----

NOTE: When you restore a snapshot copy, the existing volume configuration is overwritten. Changes made to volume data after the snapshot copy was created are lost.

== Related links

* link:../trident-concepts/snapshots.html[Volume snapshots]
* link:../trident-reference/objects.html[VolumeSnapshotClass]

Commit message:

added note that clone must match source vol

trident-use/vol-snapshots.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-use/vol-snapshots.html
keywords: volumes, on-demand volume snapshots, create snapshots, backends, kubernetes, create PVCs, PVCs
summary: You can create Kubernetes VolumeSnapshots (volume snapshot) of Persistent Volumes (PVs) to maintain point-in-time copies of Astra Trident volumes. Additionally, you can create a new volume, also known as a _clone_, from an existing volume snapshot. Volume snapshot is supported by `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, `ontap-san`, `ontap-san-economy`, `solidfire-san`, `gcp-cvs`, and `azure-netapp-files` drivers.
---

= Work with snapshots
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can create Kubernetes VolumeSnapshots (volume snapshot) of Persistent Volumes (PVs) to maintain point-in-time copies of Astra Trident volumes. Additionally, you can create a new volume, also known as a _clone_, from an existing volume snapshot. Volume snapshot is supported by `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, `ontap-san`, `ontap-san-economy`, `solidfire-san`, `gcp-cvs`, and `azure-netapp-files` drivers.

.Before you begin

You must have an external snapshot controller and Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs). This is the responsibility of the Kubernetes orchestrator (for example: Kubeadm, GKE, OpenShift). 

If your Kubernetes distribution does not include the snapshot controller and CRDs, refer to <<Deploying a volume snapshot controller>>.

NOTE: Don't create a snapshot controller if creating on-demand volume snapshots in a GKE environment. GKE uses a built-in, hidden snapshot controller.

== Step 1: Create a `VolumeSnapshotClass`

This example creates a volume snapshot class. 

----
cat snap-sc.yaml
apiVersion: snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: VolumeSnapshotClass
metadata:
  name: csi-snapclass
driver: csi.trident.netapp.io
deletionPolicy: Delete
----

The `driver` points to the Astra Trident CSI driver. `deletionPolicy` can be `Delete` or `Retain`. When set to `Retain`, the underlying physical snapshot on the storage cluster is retained even when the `VolumeSnapshot` object is deleted.

For more information, refer to link:../trident-reference/objects.html#kubernetes-volumesnapshotclass-objects[`VolumeSnapshotClass`].

== Step 2: Create a snapshot of an existing PVC

This example creates a snapshot of an existing PVC.
----
cat snap.yaml
apiVersion: snapshot.storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: VolumeSnapshot
metadata:
  name: pvc1-snap
spec:
  volumeSnapshotClassName: csi-snapclass
  source:
    persistentVolumeClaimName: pvc1
----

In this example, the snapshot is created for a PVC named `pvc1` and the name of the snapshot is set to `pvc1-snap`.

----
kubectl create -f snap.yaml
volumesnapshot.snapshot.storage.k8s.io/pvc1-snap created

kubectl get volumesnapshots
NAME                   AGE
pvc1-snap              50s
----
This created a `VolumeSnapshot` object. A VolumeSnapshot is analogous to a PVC and is associated with a `VolumeSnapshotContent` object that represents the actual snapshot.

It is possible to identify the `VolumeSnapshotContent` object for the `pvc1-snap` VolumeSnapshot by describing it.

----
kubectl describe volumesnapshots pvc1-snap
Name:         pvc1-snap
Namespace:    default
.
.
.
Spec:
  Snapshot Class Name:    pvc1-snap
  Snapshot Content Name:  snapcontent-e8d8a0ca-9826-11e9-9807-525400f3f660
  Source:
    API Group:
    Kind:       PersistentVolumeClaim
    Name:       pvc1
Status:
  Creation Time:  2019-06-26T15:27:29Z
  Ready To Use:   true
  Restore Size:   3Gi
.
.
----

The `Snapshot Content Name` identifies the VolumeSnapshotContent object which serves this snapshot. The `Ready To Use` parameter indicates that the Snapshot can be used to create a new PVC.

== Step 3: Create PVCs from VolumeSnapshots

This example creates a PVC using a snapshot. 

----
cat pvc-from-snap.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: pvc-from-snap
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  storageClassName: golden
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 3Gi
  dataSource:
    name: pvc1-snap
    kind: VolumeSnapshot
    apiGroup: snapshot.storage.k8s.io
----

`dataSource` shows that the PVC must be created using a VolumeSnapshot named `pvc1-snap` as the source of the data. This instructs Astra Trident to create a PVC from the snapshot. After the PVC is created, it can be attached to a pod and used just like any other PVC.

WARNING: The clone must be created in the same backend as the source volume. 

== Deleting a PV with snapshots
When deleting a Persistent Volume with associated snapshots, the corresponding Trident volume is updated to a “Deleting state”. Remove the volume snapshots to delete the Astra Trident volume.

== Deploying a volume snapshot controller

If your Kubernetes distribution does not include the snapshot controller and CRDs, you can deploy them as follows.

.Steps

. Create volume snapshot CRDs.
+
----
cat snapshot-setup.sh
#!/bin/bash
# Create volume snapshot CRDs
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/client/config/crd/snapshot.storage.k8s.io_volumesnapshotclasses.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/client/config/crd/snapshot.storage.k8s.io_volumesnapshotcontents.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/client/config/crd/snapshot.storage.k8s.io_volumesnapshots.yaml
----

. Create the snapshot controller. 
+
----
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/deploy/kubernetes/snapshot-controller/rbac-snapshot-controller.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-csi/external-snapshotter/release-6.1/deploy/kubernetes/snapshot-controller/setup-snapshot-controller.yaml
----
+
NOTE: If necessary, open `deploy/kubernetes/snapshot-controller/rbac-snapshot-controller.yaml` and update `namespace` to your namespace.

== Recover volume data using snapshots
The snapshot directory is hidden by default to facilitate maximum compatibility of volumes provisioned using the `ontap-nas` and `ontap-nas-economy` drivers. Enable the `.snapshot` directory to recover data from snapshots directly.

Use the volume snapshot restore ONTAP CLI to to restore a volume to a state recorded in a prior snapshot. 

----
cluster1::*> volume snapshot restore -vserver vs0 -volume vol3 -snapshot vol3_snap_archive
----

NOTE: When you restore a snapshot copy, the existing volume configuration is overwritten. Changes made to volume data after the snapshot copy was created are lost.

== Related links

* link:../trident-concepts/snapshots.html[Volume snapshots]
* link:../trident-reference/objects.html[VolumeSnapshotClass]
