trident-backend/anf.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-backend/anf.html
keywords: trident backend, azure netapp files
summary: Learn about how to configure Azure NetApp Files as the backend for your Trident installation using the sample configurations provided.
---

= Azure NetApp Files
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Learn about how to configure Azure NetApp Files (ANF) as the backend for your Trident installation using the sample configurations provided.

NOTE: The Azure NetApp Files service does not support volumes less than 100 GB. Trident automatically creates 100-GB volumes if a smaller volume is requested.

.What you'll need

To configure and use an https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/netapp/[Azure NetApp Files^] backend, you need the following:

* `subscriptionID` from an Azure subscription with Azure NetApp Files enabled.
* `tenantID`, `clientID`, and `clientSecret` from an https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal[App Registration^] in Azure Active Directory with sufficient permissions to the Azure NetApp Files service. The App Registration should use the `Owner` or `Contributor` role that is predefined by Azure.
+
TIP: To learn more about Azure built-in roles, see the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles[Azure documentation^].
* The Azure `location` that contains at least one https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-delegate-subnet[delegated subnet^].
* If you Are using Azure NetApp Files for the first time or in a new location, some initial configuration is required. See the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-quickstart-set-up-account-create-volumes[quickstart guide^].

.About this task

Based on the backend configuration (subnet, virtual network, service level, and location), Trident creates ANF volumes on capacity pools that are available in the requested location and match the requested service level and subnet.

== Backend configuration options

See the following table for the backend configuration options:

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`version` | |Always 1

|`storageDriverName` | Name of the storage driver |"azure-netapp-files"

|`backendName`  |Custom name or the storage backend
|Driver name + "_" + random characters

|`subscriptionID` |The subscription ID from your Azure subscription |

|`tenantID` |The tenant ID from an App Registration |

|`clientID` |The client ID from an App
Registration |

|`clientSecret` |The client secret from an App Registration |

|`serviceLevel` |One of `Standard`, `Premium`, or `Ultra` |"" (random)

|`location` |Name of the Azure location where the new volumes will be created |""
(random)

|`virtualNetwork` |Name of a virtual network with a delegated subnet |""
(random)

|`subnet` |Name of a subnet delegated to `Microsoft.Netapp/volumes` |""
(random)

|`nfsMountOptions` |Fine-grained control of NFS mount options. |"nfsvers=3"

|`limitVolumeSize`  |Fail provisioning if the requested volume size is above this value |"" (not enforced by default)
|`debugTraceFlags` |Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example:
`\{"api":false, "method":true}`. Do not use this unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump. a|null
|===

NOTE: If you want to mount the volumes by using NFS version 4.1, you can include ``nfsvers=4`` in the comma-delimited mount options list to choose NFS v4.1. Any mount options set in a storage class overrides the mount options set in a backend configuration file.

You can control how each volume is provisioned by default by specifying the following options in a special section of the configuration file. See the configuration examples below.

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`exportRule` |The export rule(s) for new volumes |"0.0.0.0/0"
|`size` |The default size of new volumes |"100G"
|===

The `exportRule` value must be a comma-separated list of any combination of IPv4 addresses or IPv4 subnets in CIDR notation.

NOTE: For all the volumes created on an ANF backend, Trident copies all the labels present on a storage pool to the storage volume at the time it is provisioned. Storage administrators can define labels per storage pool and group all the volumes created in a storage pool. This provides a convenient way of differentiating volumes based on a set of customizable labels that are provided in the backend configuration.

== Example 1: Minimal configuration

This is the absolute minimum backend configuration. With this configuration, Trident discovers all of your NetApp accounts, capacity pools, and subnets delegated to ANF in every location worldwide, and places new volumes on one of them randomly.

This configuration is ideal when you are just getting started with ANF and trying things out, but in practice you are going to want to provide additional scoping for the volumes you provision.
[source,console]
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
    "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
    "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
    "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
    "clientSecret": "SECRET"
}
----

== Example 2: Single location and specific service level configuration

This backend configuration places volumes in Azure's `eastus` location in a `Premium` capacity pool. Trident
automatically discovers all of the subnets delegated to ANF in that location and places a new volume on one of
them randomly.
[source,console]
----
    {
        "version": 1,
        "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
        "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
        "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
        "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
        "clientSecret": "SECRET",
        "location": "eastus",
        "serviceLevel": "Premium"
----

== Example 3: Advanced configuration

This backend configuration further reduces the scope of volume placement to a single subnet, and also modifies some volume provisioning defaults.
[source,console]
----
    {
        "version": 1,
        "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
        "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
        "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
        "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
        "clientSecret": "SECRET",
        "location": "eastus",
        "serviceLevel": "Premium",
        "virtualNetwork": "my-virtual-network",
        "subnet": "my-subnet",
        "nfsMountOptions": "vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600",
        "limitVolumeSize": "500Gi",
        "defaults": {
            "exportRule": "10.0.0.0/24,10.0.1.0/24,10.0.2.100",
            "size": "200Gi"
        }
    }
----

== Example 4: Virtual storage pool configuration

This backend configuration defines multiple storage pools in a single file. This is useful when you have multiple capacity pools supporting different service levels and you want to create storage classes in Kubernetes that represent those.
[source,console]
----
    {
        "version": 1,
        "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
        "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
        "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
        "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
        "clientSecret": "SECRET",
        "nfsMountOptions": "vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600",
        "labels": {
            "cloud": "azure"
        },
        "location": "eastus",

        "storage": [
            {
                "labels": {
                    "performance": "gold"
                },
                "serviceLevel": "Ultra"
            },
            {
                "labels": {
                    "performance": "silver"
                },
                "serviceLevel": "Premium"
            },
            {
                "labels": {
                    "performance": "bronze"
                },
                "serviceLevel": "Standard",
            }
        ]
    }
----

The following `StorageClass` definitions refer to the storage pools above. By using the `parameters.selector` field, you can specify for each `StorageClass` the pool that is used to host a volume. The volume will have the aspects defined in the chosen pool.
[source,console]
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: gold
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=gold"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: silver
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=silver"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: bronze
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=bronze"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

Commit message:

Content for backend config section, index, CVS AWS

trident-backend/anf.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-backend/anf.html
keywords: trident backend, azure netapp files
summary: Learn about how to configure Azure NetApp Files as the backend for your Trident installation using the sample configurations provided.
---

= Azure NetApp Files
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Learn about how to configure Azure NetApp Files (ANF) as the backend for your Trident installation using the sample configurations provided.

NOTE: The Azure NetApp Files service does not support volumes less than 100 GB. Trident automatically creates 100-GB volumes if a smaller volume is requested.

.What you'll need

To configure and use an https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/netapp/[Azure NetApp Files^] backend, you need the following:

* `subscriptionID` from an Azure subscription with Azure NetApp Files enabled.
* `tenantID`, `clientID`, and `clientSecret` from an https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal[App Registration^] in Azure Active Directory with sufficient permissions to the Azure NetApp Files service. The App Registration should use the `Owner` or `Contributor` role that is predefined by Azure.
+
TIP: To learn more about Azure built-in roles, see the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles[Azure documentation^].
* The Azure `location` that contains at least one https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-delegate-subnet[delegated subnet^].
* If you Are using Azure NetApp Files for the first time or in a new location, some initial configuration is required. See the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-netapp-files/azure-netapp-files-quickstart-set-up-account-create-volumes[quickstart guide^].

.About this task

Based on the backend configuration (subnet, virtual network, service level, and location), Trident creates ANF volumes on capacity pools that are available in the requested location and match the requested service level and subnet.

== Backend configuration options

See the following table for the backend configuration options:

[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`version` | |Always 1

|`storageDriverName` | Name of the storage driver |"azure-netapp-files"

|`backendName`  |Custom name or the storage backend
|Driver name + "_" + random characters

|`subscriptionID` |The subscription ID from your Azure subscription |

|`tenantID` |The tenant ID from an App Registration |

|`clientID` |The client ID from an App
Registration |

|`clientSecret` |The client secret from an App Registration |

|`serviceLevel` |One of `Standard`, `Premium`, or `Ultra` |"" (random)

|`location` |Name of the Azure location where the new volumes will be created |""
(random)

|`virtualNetwork` |Name of a virtual network with a delegated subnet |""
(random)

|`subnet` |Name of a subnet delegated to `Microsoft.Netapp/volumes` |""
(random)

|`nfsMountOptions` |Fine-grained control of NFS mount options. |"nfsvers=3"

|`limitVolumeSize`  |Fail provisioning if the requested volume size is above this value |"" (not enforced by default)
|`debugTraceFlags` |Debug flags to use when troubleshooting. Example:
`\{"api":false, "method":true}`. Do not use this unless you are troubleshooting and require a detailed log dump. a|null
|===

NOTE: If you want to mount the volumes by using NFS version 4.1, you can include ``nfsvers=4`` in the comma-delimited mount options list to choose NFS v4.1. Any mount options set in a storage class overrides the mount options set in a backend configuration file.

You can control how each volume is provisioned by default by specifying the following options in a special section of the configuration file. See the configuration examples below.

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`exportRule` |The export rule(s) for new volumes |"0.0.0.0/0"
|`size` |The default size of new volumes |"100G"
|===

The `exportRule` value must be a comma-separated list of any combination of IPv4 addresses or IPv4 subnets in CIDR notation.

NOTE: For all the volumes created on an ANF backend, Trident copies all the labels present on a storage pool to the storage volume at the time it is provisioned. Storage administrators can define labels per storage pool and group all the volumes created in a storage pool. This provides a convenient way of differentiating volumes based on a set of customizable labels that are provided in the backend configuration.

== Example 1: Minimal configuration

This is the absolute minimum backend configuration. With this configuration, Trident discovers all of your NetApp accounts, capacity pools, and subnets delegated to ANF in every location worldwide, and places new volumes on one of them randomly.

This configuration is ideal when you are just getting started with ANF and trying things out, but in practice you are going to want to provide additional scoping for the volumes you provision.

[source,console]
----
{
    "version": 1,
    "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
    "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
    "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
    "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
    "clientSecret": "SECRET"
}
----

== Example 2: Single location and specific service level configuration

This backend configuration places volumes in Azure's `eastus` location in a `Premium` capacity pool. Trident
automatically discovers all of the subnets delegated to ANF in that location and places a new volume on one of
them randomly.

[source,console]
----
    {
        "version": 1,
        "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
        "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
        "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
        "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
        "clientSecret": "SECRET",
        "location": "eastus",
        "serviceLevel": "Premium"
    }
----

== Example 3: Advanced configuration

This backend configuration further reduces the scope of volume placement to a single subnet, and also modifies some volume provisioning defaults.

[source,console]
----
    {
        "version": 1,
        "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
        "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
        "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
        "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
        "clientSecret": "SECRET",
        "location": "eastus",
        "serviceLevel": "Premium",
        "virtualNetwork": "my-virtual-network",
        "subnet": "my-subnet",
        "nfsMountOptions": "vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600",
        "limitVolumeSize": "500Gi",
        "defaults": {
            "exportRule": "10.0.0.0/24,10.0.1.0/24,10.0.2.100",
            "size": "200Gi"
        }
    }
----

== Example 4: Virtual storage pool configuration

This backend configuration defines multiple storage pools in a single file. This is useful when you have multiple capacity pools supporting different service levels and you want to create storage classes in Kubernetes that represent those.

[source,console]
----
    {
        "version": 1,
        "storageDriverName": "azure-netapp-files",
        "subscriptionID": "9f87c765-4774-fake-ae98-a721add45451",
        "tenantID": "68e4f836-edc1-fake-bff9-b2d865ee56cf",
        "clientID": "dd043f63-bf8e-fake-8076-8de91e5713aa",
        "clientSecret": "SECRET",
        "nfsMountOptions": "vers=3,proto=tcp,timeo=600",
        "labels": {
            "cloud": "azure"
        },
        "location": "eastus",

        "storage": [
            {
                "labels": {
                    "performance": "gold"
                },
                "serviceLevel": "Ultra"
            },
            {
                "labels": {
                    "performance": "silver"
                },
                "serviceLevel": "Premium"
            },
            {
                "labels": {
                    "performance": "bronze"
                },
                "serviceLevel": "Standard",
            }
        ]
    }
----

The following `StorageClass` definitions refer to the storage pools above. By using the `parameters.selector` field, you can specify for each `StorageClass` the visrtual pool that is used to host a volume. The volume will have the aspects defined in the chosen pool.

[source,console]
----
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: gold
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=gold"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: silver
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=silver"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: bronze
provisioner: csi.trident.netapp.io
parameters:
  selector: "performance=bronze"
allowVolumeExpansion: true
----

== What's next?

After you create the backend configuration file, run the following command:

[source,console]
----
tridentctl create backend -f <backend-file>
----

If the backend creation fails, something is wrong with the backend configuration. You can view the logs to determine the cause by running the following command:

[source,console]
----
tridentctl logs
----

After you identify and correct the problem with the configuration file, you can run the create command again.
