trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy.html
keywords: deploy, trident, methods, operator, tridentctl, helm, attributes, customize, tridentorchestrator
summary: The Trident operator enables you to customize the manner in which Astra Trident is installed by using the attributes in the `TridentOrchestrator` spec.
---

= Customize Trident operator deployment
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

The Trident operator provides enables you to customize the manner in which Astra Trident is installed by using the attributes in the `TridentOrchestrator` spec.

See the following table for the list of attributes:
[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`namespace` |Namespace to install Astra Trident in |"default"

|`debug` |Enable debugging for Astra Trident |false

|`useIPv6` |Install Astra Trident over IPv6 |false

|`k8sTimeout` |Timeout for Kubernetes operations |30sec

|`silenceAutosupport` |Don't send autosupport bundles to NetApp
automatically |false

|`enableNodePrep` |Manage worker node dependencies automatically (*BETA*)
|false

|`autosupportImage` |The container image for Autosupport Telemetry
|"netapp/trident-autosupport:21.04.0"

|`autosupportProxy` |The address/port of a proxy for sending Autosupport
Telemetry |"http://proxy.example.com:8888"

|`uninstall` |A flag used to uninstall Astra Trident |false

|`logFormat` |Astra Trident logging format to be used [text,json] |"text"

|`tridentImage` |Astra Trident image to install |"netapp/trident:21.04"

|`imageRegistry` |Path to internal registry, of the format
`<registry FQDN>[:port][/subpath]` |"k8s.gcr.io/sig-storage (k8s 1.17+)
or quay.io/k8scsi"

|`kubeletDir` |Path to the kubelet directory on the host |“/var/lib/kubelet”

|`wipeout` |A list of resources to delete to perform a complete removal of
Astra Trident |

|`imagePullSecrets` |Secrets to pull images from an internal registry |

|`controllerPluginNodeSelector` |Additional node selectors for pods running the Trident Controller CSI Plugin.	Follows same format as pod.spec.nodeSelector |No default; optional

|`controllerPluginTolerations` |Overrides tolerations for pods running the Trident Controller CSI Plugin. Follows the same format as pod.spec.Tolerations. |No default; optional

|`nodePluginNodeSelector` |Additional node selectors for pods running the Trident Node CSI Plugin. Follows same format as pod.spec.nodeSelector. |No default; optional

|`nodePluginTolerations` |Overrides tolerations for pods running the Trident Node CSI Plugin. Follows the same format as pod.spec.Tolerations. |No default; optional
|===
IMPORTANT: `spec.namespace` is specified in `TridentOrchestrator` to signify which namespace Astra Trident is installed in. This parameter *cannot be updated after Astra Trident is installed*. Attempting to do so causes the status of `TridentOrchestrator` to change to `Failed`. Astra Trident is not meant to be migrated across namespaces.

NOTE: Automatic worker node prep is a *beta feature* meant to be used in non-production environments only.

You can use the attributes mentioned above when defining `TridentOrchestrator` to customize your installation. Here's an example:
----
$ cat deploy/crds/tridentorchestrator_cr_imagepullsecrets.yaml
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident
  tridentImage: netapp/trident:21.04.0
  imagePullSecrets:
  - thisisasecret
----

If you are looking to customize the installation beyond what `TridentOrchestrator` arguments allow, you should consider using `tridentctl` to generate custom YAML manifests that you can modify as needed.

Commit message:

added link to reference for formatting pod parameters

trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy.html
keywords: deploy, trident, methods, operator, tridentctl, helm, attributes, customize, tridentorchestrator
summary: The Trident operator enables you to customize the manner in which Astra Trident is installed by using the attributes in the `TridentOrchestrator` spec.
---

= Customize Trident operator deployment
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

The Trident operator provides enables you to customize the manner in which Astra Trident is installed by using the attributes in the `TridentOrchestrator` spec.

See the following table for the list of attributes:
[cols=3,options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Default
|`namespace` |Namespace to install Astra Trident in |"default"

|`debug` |Enable debugging for Astra Trident |false

|`useIPv6` |Install Astra Trident over IPv6 |false

|`k8sTimeout` |Timeout for Kubernetes operations |30sec

|`silenceAutosupport` |Don't send autosupport bundles to NetApp
automatically |false

|`enableNodePrep` |Manage worker node dependencies automatically (*BETA*)
|false

|`autosupportImage` |The container image for Autosupport Telemetry
|"netapp/trident-autosupport:21.04.0"

|`autosupportProxy` |The address/port of a proxy for sending Autosupport
Telemetry |"http://proxy.example.com:8888"

|`uninstall` |A flag used to uninstall Astra Trident |false

|`logFormat` |Astra Trident logging format to be used [text,json] |"text"

|`tridentImage` |Astra Trident image to install |"netapp/trident:21.04"

|`imageRegistry` |Path to internal registry, of the format
`<registry FQDN>[:port][/subpath]` |"k8s.gcr.io/sig-storage (k8s 1.17+)
or quay.io/k8scsi"

|`kubeletDir` |Path to the kubelet directory on the host |“/var/lib/kubelet”

|`wipeout` |A list of resources to delete to perform a complete removal of
Astra Trident |

|`imagePullSecrets` |Secrets to pull images from an internal registry |

|`controllerPluginNodeSelector` |Additional node selectors for pods running the Trident Controller CSI Plugin.

Follows same format as pod.spec.nodeSelector |No default; optional

|`controllerPluginTolerations` |Overrides tolerations for pods running the Trident Controller CSI Plugin.

Follows the same format as pod.spec.Tolerations. |No default; optional

|`nodePluginNodeSelector` |Additional node selectors for pods running the Trident Node CSI Plugin.

Follows same format as pod.spec.nodeSelector. |No default; optional

|`nodePluginTolerations` |Overrides tolerations for pods running the Trident Node CSI Plugin.

Follows the same format as pod.spec.Tolerations. |No default; optional
|===
IMPORTANT: `spec.namespace` is specified in `TridentOrchestrator` to signify which namespace Astra Trident is installed in. This parameter *cannot be updated after Astra Trident is installed*. Attempting to do so causes the status of `TridentOrchestrator` to change to `Failed`. Astra Trident is not meant to be migrated across namespaces.

NOTE: Automatic worker node prep is a *beta feature* meant to be used in non-production environments only.

TIP: For more information on formatting pod parameters, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/[Assigning Pods to Nodes^].

You can use the attributes mentioned above when defining `TridentOrchestrator` to customize your installation. Here's an example:
----
$ cat deploy/crds/tridentorchestrator_cr_imagepullsecrets.yaml
apiVersion: trident.netapp.io/v1
kind: TridentOrchestrator
metadata:
  name: trident
spec:
  debug: true
  namespace: trident
  tridentImage: netapp/trident:21.04.0
  imagePullSecrets:
  - thisisasecret
----

If you are looking to customize the installation beyond what `TridentOrchestrator` arguments allow, you should consider using `tridentctl` to generate custom YAML manifests that you can modify as needed.
