trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy-tridentctl.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy-tridentctl.html
keywords: deploy, astra trident, methods, operator, tridentctl, helm, attributes, customize, tridentorchestrator
summary: Trident’s installer enables you to customize attributes.
---

= Customize `tridentctl` deployment
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

Trident installer enables you to customize attributes. For example, if you have copied the Trident image to a private repository, you can specify the image name by using `--trident-image`. If you have copied the Trident image as well as the needed CSI sidecar images to a private repository, it might be preferable to specify the location of that repository by using the `--image-registry` switch, which takes the form `<registry FQDN>[:port]`.

If you are using a distribution of Kubernetes, where `kubelet` keeps its data on a path other than the usual `/var/lib/kubelet`, you can specify the alternate path by using `--kubelet-dir`.

If you need to customize the installation beyond what the installer's arguments allow, you can also customize the deployment files. Using the `--generate-custom-yaml` parameter creates the following YAML files in the installer's `setup` directory:

* `trident-clusterrolebinding.yaml`
* `trident-deployment.yaml`
* `trident-crds.yaml`
* `trident-clusterrole.yaml`
* `trident-daemonset.yaml`
* `trident-service.yaml`
* `trident-namespace.yaml`
* `trident-serviceaccount.yaml`
* `trident-resourcequota.yaml`

After you have generated these files, you can modify them according to your needs and then use `--use-custom-yaml` to install your custom deployment.
----
./tridentctl install -n trident --use-custom-yaml
----

Commit message:

additional linter error correction; mainly added lead

trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy-tridentctl.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-get-started/kubernetes-customize-deploy-tridentctl.html
keywords: deploy, astra trident, methods, operator, tridentctl, helm, attributes, customize, tridentorchestrator
summary: You can use the Astra Trident installer to customize deployment. 
---

= Customize `tridentctl` deployment
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can use the Astra Trident installer to customize deployment. 

== Learn about the installer
The Astra Trident installer enables you to customize attributes. For example, if you have copied the Trident image to a private repository, you can specify the image name by using `--trident-image`. If you have copied the Trident image as well as the needed CSI sidecar images to a private repository, it might be preferable to specify the location of that repository by using the `--image-registry` switch, which takes the form `<registry FQDN>[:port]`.

If you are using a distribution of Kubernetes, where `kubelet` keeps its data on a path other than the usual `/var/lib/kubelet`, you can specify the alternate path by using `--kubelet-dir`.

If you need to customize the installation beyond what the installer's arguments allow, you can also customize the deployment files. Using the `--generate-custom-yaml` parameter creates the following YAML files in the installer's `setup` directory:

* `trident-clusterrolebinding.yaml`
* `trident-deployment.yaml`
* `trident-crds.yaml`
* `trident-clusterrole.yaml`
* `trident-daemonset.yaml`
* `trident-service.yaml`
* `trident-namespace.yaml`
* `trident-serviceaccount.yaml`
* `trident-resourcequota.yaml`

After you have generated these files, you can modify them according to your needs and then use `--use-custom-yaml` to install your custom deployment.
----
./tridentctl install -n trident --use-custom-yaml
----
