trident-concepts/ontap-drivers.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-concepts/ontap-drivers.html
keywords: trident backend, AFF, FAS, ONTAP Select, Cloud, Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP, drivers, ONTAP drivers
summary: Learn about how to create and use an Element backend with your Trident installation.
---

= ONTAP drivers
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Astra Trident provides five unique ONTAP storage drivers for communicating with ONTAP clusters. Learn more about how each driver handles the creation of volumes and access control and their capabilities.

== Learn about ONTAP storage drivers

[WARNING]
====
Astra Control provides seamless protection, disaster recovery, and mobility (moving volumes between Kubernetes clusters) for volumes created with the `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, and `ontap-san` drivers. See link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/astra-control-center/use/replicate_snapmirror.html#replication-prerequisites[Astra Control replication prerequisites^] for details.  

* You must use `ontap-nas` for production workloads that require data protection, disaster recovery, and mobility. 
* Use `ontap-san-economy` when anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports. 
* Use `ontap-nas-economy` only where anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports, and the `ontap-san-economy` driver cannot be used. 
* Do not use use `ontap-nas-economy` if you anticipate the need for data protection, disaster recovery, or mobility.
====

[cols=5,options="header"]
|===
|Driver
|Protocol
|volumeMode
|Access modes supported
|File systems supported

|`ontap-nas`
a|NFS
a|Filesystem
a|RWO,ROX,RWX
a|"", nfs

|`ontap-nas-economy`
a|NFS
a|Filesystem
a|RWO,ROX,RWX
a|"", nfs

|`ontap-nas-flexgroup`
a|NFS
a|Filesystem
a|RWO,ROX,RWX
a|"", nfs

|`ontap-san`
a|iSCSI
a|Block
a|RWO,ROX,RWX
a|No filesystem; raw block device

|`ontap-san`
a|iSCSI
a|Filesystem
a|RWO,ROX

RWX is not available in Filesystem volume mode.
a|`xfs`, `ext3`, `ext4`

|`ontap-san-economy`
a|iSCSI
a|Block
a|RWO,ROX,RWX
a|No filesystem; raw block device

|`ontap-san-economy`
a|iSCSI
a|Filesystem
a|RWO,ROX

RWX is not available in Filesystem volume mode.
a|`xfs`, `ext3`, `ext4`
|===

NOTE: ONTAP backends can be authenticated using login credentials for a security role (username/password) or using the private key and the certificate that is installed on the ONTAP cluster. You can update existing backends to move from one authentication mode to the other with `tridentctl update backend`.

Commit message:

added rwop to access modes

trident-concepts/ontap-drivers.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-concepts/ontap-drivers.html
keywords: trident backend, AFF, FAS, ONTAP Select, Cloud, Amazon FSx for NetApp ONTAP, drivers, ONTAP drivers, access modes, rwo, rwx, rwp, rwop
summary: Astra Trident provides five unique ONTAP storage drivers for communicating with ONTAP clusters. 
---

= ONTAP drivers
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Astra Trident provides five unique ONTAP storage drivers for communicating with ONTAP clusters. 

== Astra Control supported drivers

Astra Control provides seamless protection, disaster recovery, and mobility (moving volumes between Kubernetes clusters) for volumes created with the `ontap-nas`, `ontap-nas-flexgroup`, and `ontap-san` drivers. See link:https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/astra-control-center/use/replicate_snapmirror.html#replication-prerequisites[Astra Control replication prerequisites^] for details.  

[WARNING]
====
* You must use `ontap-nas` for production workloads that require data protection, disaster recovery, and mobility. 
* Use `ontap-san-economy` when anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports. 
* Use `ontap-nas-economy` only where anticipated volume usage is expected to be much higher than what ONTAP supports, and the `ontap-san-economy` driver cannot be used. 
* Do not use use `ontap-nas-economy` if you anticipate the need for data protection, disaster recovery, or mobility.
====

== Astra Trident storage drivers for ONTAP
Astra Trident provides the following storage drivers to commnunicate with the ONTAP cluster. Supported access modes are: _ReadWriteOnce_ (RWO), _ReadOnlyMany_ (ROX), _ReadWriteMany_ (RWX), _ReadWriteOncePod_ (RWOP).


[cols="2, 1, 1, 2, 2", options="header"]
|===
|Driver
|Protocol
|volumeMode
|Access modes supported
|File systems supported

|`ontap-nas`
a|NFS
a|Filesystem
a|RWO, ROX, RWX, RWOP
a|"", nfs

|`ontap-nas-economy`
a|NFS
a|Filesystem
a|RWO,ROX,RWX
a|"", nfs

|`ontap-nas-flexgroup`
a|NFS
a|Filesystem
a|RWO, ROX, RWX, RWOP
a|"", nfs

|`ontap-san`
a|iSCSI
a|Block
a|RWO, ROX, RWX, RWOP
a|No filesystem; raw block device

|`ontap-san`
a|iSCSI
a|Filesystem
a|RWO, ROX, RWOP

RWX is not available in Filesystem volume mode.
a|`xfs`, `ext3`, `ext4`

|`ontap-san-economy`
a|iSCSI
a|Block
a|RWO, ROX, RWX, RWOP
a|No filesystem; raw block device

|`ontap-san-economy`
a|iSCSI
a|Filesystem
a|RWO, ROX, RWOP

RWX is not available in Filesystem volume mode.
a|`xfs`, `ext3`, `ext4`
|===

NOTE: ONTAP backends can be authenticated by using login credentials for a security role (username/password) or the private key and the certificate that is installed on the ONTAP cluster. You can update existing backends to move from one authentication mode to the other with `tridentctl update backend`.
