trident-protect/monitor-trident-protect-resources.adoc, before:

---
permalink: trident-protect/monitor-trident-protect-resources.html
sidebar: sidebar
keywords: manage, authentication, rbac
summary: "You can monitor the state of Trident protect resources using kube-state-metrics and Prometheus. This gives you health information about deployments, nodes, and pods."
---
= Monitor Trident protect resources
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can use the kube-state-metrics, Prometheus, and Alertmanager open source tools to monitor the health of the resources protected by Trident protect.

The kube-state-metrics service generates metrics from Kubernetes API communication. Using it with Trident protect exposes useful information about the state of resources in your environment.

Prometheus is a toolkit that can ingest the data generated by kube-state-metrics and present it as easily readable information about these objects. Together, kube-state-metrics and Prometheus provide a way for you to monitor the health and status of the resources you are managing with Trident protect.

Alertmanager is a service that ingests the alerts sent by tools such as Prometheus and routes them to destinations that you configure.

[NOTE]
=====
The configurations and guidance included in these steps are only examples; you need to customize them to match your environment. Refer to the following official documentation for specific instructions and support:

* https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/main[kube-state-metrics documentation^]
* https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/[Prometheus documentation^]
* https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager[Alertmanager documentation^]
=====

== Step 1: Install the monitoring tools
To enable resource monitoring in Trident protect, you need to install and configure kube-state-metrics, Promethus, and Alertmanager.

=== Install kube-state-metrics
You can install kube-state-metrics using Helm.

.Steps
. Add the kube-state-metrics Helm chart. For example:
+
[source,console]
----
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
----

. Create a configuration file for the Helm chart (for example, `metrics-config.yaml`). You can customize the following example configuration to match your environment:
+
.metrics-config.yaml: kube-state-metrics Helm chart configuration
[source,yaml]
----
---
extraArgs:
  # Collect only custom metrics
  - --custom-resource-state-only=true

customResourceState:
  enabled: true
  config:
    kind: CustomResourceStateMetrics
    spec:
      resources:
      - groupVersionKind:
          group: astra.netapp.io
          kind: "Backup"
          version: "v1"
        labelsFromPath:
          backup_uid: [metadata, uid]
          backup_name: [metadata, name]
          creation_time: [metadata, creationTimestamp]
        metrics:
        - name: backup_info
          help: "Exposes details about the Backup state"
          each:
            type: Info
            info:
              labelsFromPath:
                appVaultReference: ["spec", "appVaultRef"]
                appReference: ["spec", "applicationRef"]
rbac:
  extraRules:
  - apiGroups: ["backups.protect.trident.netapp.io"]
    resources: ["backups"]
    verbs: ["list", "watch"]
 
# Collect metrics from all namespaces
namespaces: ""
 
# Ensure that the metrics are collected by Prometheus
prometheus:
  monitor:
    enabled: true
----

. Install kube-state-metrics by deploying the Helm chart. For example:
+
[source,console]
----
helm install custom-resource -f metrics-config.yaml prometheus-community/kube-state-metrics --version 5.21.0
----

=== Install Prometheus
You can install Prometheus by following the instructions in the https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/installation/[Prometheus documentation^].

=== Install Alertmanager
You can install Alertmanager by following the instructions in the https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager?tab=readme-ov-file#install[Alertmanager documentation^].

== Step 2: Configure the monitoring tools to work together
After you install the monitoring tools, you need to configure them to work together.

.Steps

. Integrate kube-state-metrics with Prometheus. Edit the Prometheus configuration file (`prometheus.yml`) and add the kube-state-metrics service information. For example:
+
.prometheus.yml: kube-state-metrics service integration with Prometheus
[source,yaml]
----
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: prometheus-config
  namespace: astra-connector
data:
  prometheus.yml: |
    global:
      scrape_interval: 15s
    scrape_configs:
      - job_name: 'kube-state-metrics'
        static_configs:
          - targets: ['kube-state-metrics.astra-connector.svc:8080']
----

. Configure Prometheus to route alerts to Alertmanager. Edit the Prometheus configuration file (`prometheus.yml`) and add the following section:
+
.prometheus.yml: Send alerts to Alertmanager
[source,yaml]
----
alerting:
  alertmanagers:
    - static_configs:
        - targets: ['alertmanager.astra-connector.svc:9093']
----

.Result 
Prometheus can now gather metrics from kube-state-metrics, and can send alerts to Alertmanager. You are now ready to configure what conditions trigger an alert and where the alerts should be sent. 

== Step 3: Configure alerts and alert destinations
After you configure the tools to work together, you need to configure what type of information triggers alerts, and where the alerts should be sent.

=== Alert example: backup failure
The following example defines a critical alert that is triggered when the status of the backup custom resource is set to `Error` for 5 seconds or longer. You can customize this example to match your environment, and include this YAML snippet in your `prometheus.yml` configuration file:

.rules.yml: Define a Prometheus alert for failed backups
[source,yaml]
----
rules.yml: |
  groups:     
    - name: fail-backup
        rules:
          - alert: BackupFailed
            expr: kube_customresource_backup_info{status="Error"}
            for: 5s
            labels:
              severity: critical
            annotations:
              summary: "Backup Failed"
              description: "A Backup has failed."
----

=== Configure Alertmanager to send alerts to other channels
You can configure Alertmanager to send notifications to other channels, such as e-mail, PagerDuty, Microsoft Teams, or other notification services by specifying the respective configuration in the `alertmanager.yml` file.

The following example configures Alertmanager to send notifications to a Slack channel. To customize this example to your environment, replace the value of the `api_url` key with the Slack webhook URL used in your environment:

.alertmanager.yml: Send alerts to a Slack channel
[source,yaml]
----
data:
  alertmanager.yml: |
    global:
      resolve_timeout: 5m
    route:
      receiver: 'slack-notifications'
    receivers:
      - name: 'slack-notifications'
        slack_configs:
          - api_url: '<your-slack-webhook-url>'
            channel: '#failed-backups-channel'
            send_resolved: false
----

Commit message:

Added custom state metrics info for astradoc-536.

trident-protect/monitor-trident-protect-resources.adoc, after:

---
permalink: trident-protect/monitor-trident-protect-resources.html
sidebar: sidebar
keywords: manage, authentication, rbac
summary: "You can monitor the state of Trident protect resources using kube-state-metrics and Prometheus. This gives you health information about deployments, nodes, and pods."
---
= Monitor Trident protect resources
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can use the kube-state-metrics, Prometheus, and Alertmanager open source tools to monitor the health of the resources protected by Trident protect.

The kube-state-metrics service generates metrics from Kubernetes API communication. Using it with Trident protect exposes useful information about the state of resources in your environment.

Prometheus is a toolkit that can ingest the data generated by kube-state-metrics and present it as easily readable information about these objects. Together, kube-state-metrics and Prometheus provide a way for you to monitor the health and status of the resources you are managing with Trident protect.

Alertmanager is a service that ingests the alerts sent by tools such as Prometheus and routes them to destinations that you configure.

[NOTE]
=====
The configurations and guidance included in these steps are only examples; you need to customize them to match your environment. Refer to the following official documentation for specific instructions and support:

* https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/tree/main[kube-state-metrics documentation^]
* https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/[Prometheus documentation^]
* https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager[Alertmanager documentation^]
=====

== Step 1: Install the monitoring tools
To enable resource monitoring in Trident protect, you need to install and configure kube-state-metrics, Promethus, and Alertmanager.

=== Install kube-state-metrics
You can install kube-state-metrics using Helm.

.Steps
. Add the kube-state-metrics Helm chart. For example:
+
[source,console]
----
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
----

. Create a configuration file for the Helm chart (for example, `metrics-config.yaml`). You can customize the following example configuration to match your environment:
+
.metrics-config.yaml: kube-state-metrics Helm chart configuration
[source,yaml]
----
---
extraArgs:
  # Collect only custom metrics
  - --custom-resource-state-only=true

customResourceState:
  enabled: true
  config:
    kind: CustomResourceStateMetrics
    spec:
      resources:
      - groupVersionKind:
          group: astra.netapp.io
          kind: "Backup"
          version: "v1"
        labelsFromPath:
          backup_uid: [metadata, uid]
          backup_name: [metadata, name]
          creation_time: [metadata, creationTimestamp]
        metrics:
        - name: backup_info
          help: "Exposes details about the Backup state"
          each:
            type: Info
            info:
              labelsFromPath:
                appVaultReference: ["spec", "appVaultRef"]
                appReference: ["spec", "applicationRef"]
rbac:
  extraRules:
  - apiGroups: ["backups.protect.trident.netapp.io"]
    resources: ["backups"]
    verbs: ["list", "watch"]
 
# Collect metrics from all namespaces
namespaces: ""
 
# Ensure that the metrics are collected by Prometheus
prometheus:
  monitor:
    enabled: true
----

. Install kube-state-metrics by deploying the Helm chart. For example:
+
[source,console]
----
helm install custom-resource -f metrics-config.yaml prometheus-community/kube-state-metrics --version 5.21.0
----

. Configure kube-state-metrics to gather metrics for the custom resources used by Trident protect by following the instructions in the https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/blob/main/docs/metrics/extend/customresourcestate-metrics.md#custom-resource-state-metrics[kube-state-metrics custom resource documentation^].

=== Install Prometheus
You can install Prometheus by following the instructions in the https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/installation/[Prometheus documentation^].

=== Install Alertmanager
You can install Alertmanager by following the instructions in the https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager?tab=readme-ov-file#install[Alertmanager documentation^].

== Step 2: Configure the monitoring tools to work together
After you install the monitoring tools, you need to configure them to work together.

.Steps

. Integrate kube-state-metrics with Prometheus. Edit the Prometheus configuration file (`prometheus.yml`) and add the kube-state-metrics service information. For example:
+
.prometheus.yml: kube-state-metrics service integration with Prometheus
[source,yaml]
----
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: prometheus-config
  namespace: astra-connector
data:
  prometheus.yml: |
    global:
      scrape_interval: 15s
    scrape_configs:
      - job_name: 'kube-state-metrics'
        static_configs:
          - targets: ['kube-state-metrics.astra-connector.svc:8080']
----

. Configure Prometheus to route alerts to Alertmanager. Edit the Prometheus configuration file (`prometheus.yml`) and add the following section:
+
.prometheus.yml: Send alerts to Alertmanager
[source,yaml]
----
alerting:
  alertmanagers:
    - static_configs:
        - targets: ['alertmanager.astra-connector.svc:9093']
----

.Result 
Prometheus can now gather metrics from kube-state-metrics, and can send alerts to Alertmanager. You are now ready to configure what conditions trigger an alert and where the alerts should be sent. 

== Step 3: Configure alerts and alert destinations
After you configure the tools to work together, you need to configure what type of information triggers alerts, and where the alerts should be sent.

=== Alert example: backup failure
The following example defines a critical alert that is triggered when the status of the backup custom resource is set to `Error` for 5 seconds or longer. You can customize this example to match your environment, and include this YAML snippet in your `prometheus.yml` configuration file:

.rules.yml: Define a Prometheus alert for failed backups
[source,yaml]
----
rules.yml: |
  groups:     
    - name: fail-backup
        rules:
          - alert: BackupFailed
            expr: kube_customresource_backup_info{status="Error"}
            for: 5s
            labels:
              severity: critical
            annotations:
              summary: "Backup Failed"
              description: "A Backup has failed."
----

=== Configure Alertmanager to send alerts to other channels
You can configure Alertmanager to send notifications to other channels, such as e-mail, PagerDuty, Microsoft Teams, or other notification services by specifying the respective configuration in the `alertmanager.yml` file.

The following example configures Alertmanager to send notifications to a Slack channel. To customize this example to your environment, replace the value of the `api_url` key with the Slack webhook URL used in your environment:

.alertmanager.yml: Send alerts to a Slack channel
[source,yaml]
----
data:
  alertmanager.yml: |
    global:
      resolve_timeout: 5m
    route:
      receiver: 'slack-notifications'
    receivers:
      - name: 'slack-notifications'
        slack_configs:
          - api_url: '<your-slack-webhook-url>'
            channel: '#failed-backups-channel'
            send_resolved: false
----
