trident-protect/trident-protect-upgrade.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-protect/trident-protect-upgrade.html
keywords: trident, protect, netapp, uninstall, full version
summary: You might need to remove Trident protect components if you are upgrading from a trial to a full version of the product. 
---
= Upgrade Trident protect
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can upgrade Trident protect to the latest version to take advantage of new features or bug fixes.

To upgrade Trident protect, perform the following steps.

.Steps
. Update the Trident Helm repository:
+
[source,console]
----
helm repo update
----
. Upgrade the Trident protect CRDs:
+
[source,console]
----
helm upgrade trident-protect-crds netapp-trident-protect/trident-protect-crds --version 100.2410.1  --namespace trident-protect
----
. Upgrade Trident protect:
+
[source,console]
----
helm upgrade trident-protect netapp-trident-protect/trident-protect --set clusterName=<name_of_cluster> --version 100.2410.1 --namespace trident-protect
----

Commit message:

Added fixes for upgrade topic.

trident-protect/trident-protect-upgrade.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-protect/trident-protect-upgrade.html
keywords: trident, protect, netapp, upgrade, new, version
summary: You can upgrade Trident protect to the latest version to take advantage of new features or bug fixes. 
---
= Upgrade Trident protect
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
You can upgrade Trident protect to the latest version to take advantage of new features or bug fixes.

To upgrade Trident protect, perform the following steps.

.Steps
. Update the Trident Helm repository:
+
[source,console]
----
helm repo update
----
. Upgrade the Trident protect CRDs:
+
[source,console]
----
helm upgrade trident-protect-crds netapp-trident-protect/trident-protect-crds --version 100.2410.1  --namespace trident-protect
----
. Upgrade Trident protect:
+
[source,console]
----
helm upgrade trident-protect netapp-trident-protect/trident-protect --set clusterName=<name_of_cluster> --version 100.2410.1 --namespace trident-protect
----
