trident-reference/trident-cl.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-reference/trident-cl.html
keywords: command-line, options, logging, kubernetes, docker, ports
summary: Astra Trident exposes several command-line options and communicates over certain ports.
---

= Command-line options
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Astra Trident exposes several command-line options. You can modify them in your deployment.

== Logging

* `-debug`: Enables debugging output.
* `-loglevel <level>`: Sets the logging level (debug, info, warn, error, fatal). Defaults to info.

== Kubernetes

* `-k8s_pod`: Use this option or `-k8s_api_server` to enable Kubernetes support. Setting this causes Trident to use its containing pod's Kubernetes service account credentials to contact the API server. This only works when Trident runs as a pod in a Kubernetes cluster with service accounts enabled.
* `-k8s_api_server <insecure-address:insecure-port>`: Use this option or `-k8s_pod` to enable Kubernetes support. When specified, Trident connects to the Kubernetes API server using the provided insecure address and port. This allows Trident to be deployed outside of a pod; however, it only supports insecure connections to the API server. To connect securely, deploy Trident in a pod with the `-k8s_pod` option.
* `-k8s_config_path <file>`: Required; you must specify this path to a KubeConfig file.

== Docker

* `-volume_driver <name>`: Driver name used when registering the Docker plugin. Defaults to `netapp`.
* `-driver_port <port-number>`: Listen on this port rather than a UNIX domain socket.
* `-config <file>`: Required; you must specify this path to a backend configuration file.

== REST

* `-address <ip-or-host>`: Specifies the address on which Trident's REST server should listen. Defaults to localhost. When listening on localhost and running inside a Kubernetes pod, the REST interface isn't directly accessible from outside the pod. Use `-address ""` to make the REST interface accessible from the pod IP address.

CAUTION: Trident REST interface can be configured to listen and serve at 127.0.0.1 (for IPv4) or [::1] (for IPv6) only.

* `-port <port-number>`: Specifies the port on which Trident's REST server should listen. Defaults to 8000.
* `-rest`: Enables the REST interface. Defaults to true.

Commit message:

Issue #66: Added clarification that CLI applies only to orchestrator.

trident-reference/trident-cl.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: trident-reference/trident-cl.html
keywords: command-line, options, logging, kubernetes, docker, ports
summary: Astra Trident exposes several command-line options for TridentOrchestrator and communicates over certain ports.
---

= Command-line options
:hardbreaks:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: ../media/

[.lead]
Astra Trident exposes several command-line options for `TridentOrchestrator`. You can use these options to modify your deployment.

== Logging

* `-debug`: Enables debugging output.
* `-loglevel <level>`: Sets the logging level (debug, info, warn, error, fatal). Defaults to info.

== Kubernetes

* `-k8s_pod`: Use this option or `-k8s_api_server` to enable Kubernetes support. Setting this causes Trident to use its containing pod's Kubernetes service account credentials to contact the API server. This only works when Trident runs as a pod in a Kubernetes cluster with service accounts enabled.
* `-k8s_api_server <insecure-address:insecure-port>`: Use this option or `-k8s_pod` to enable Kubernetes support. When specified, Trident connects to the Kubernetes API server using the provided insecure address and port. This allows Trident to be deployed outside of a pod; however, it only supports insecure connections to the API server. To connect securely, deploy Trident in a pod with the `-k8s_pod` option.
* `-k8s_config_path <file>`: Required; you must specify this path to a KubeConfig file.

== Docker

* `-volume_driver <name>`: Driver name used when registering the Docker plugin. Defaults to `netapp`.
* `-driver_port <port-number>`: Listen on this port rather than a UNIX domain socket.
* `-config <file>`: Required; you must specify this path to a backend configuration file.

== REST

* `-address <ip-or-host>`: Specifies the address on which Trident's REST server should listen. Defaults to localhost. When listening on localhost and running inside a Kubernetes pod, the REST interface isn't directly accessible from outside the pod. Use `-address ""` to make the REST interface accessible from the pod IP address.

CAUTION: Trident REST interface can be configured to listen and serve at 127.0.0.1 (for IPv4) or [::1] (for IPv6) only.

* `-port <port-number>`: Specifies the port on which Trident's REST server should listen. Defaults to 8000.
* `-rest`: Enables the REST interface. Defaults to true.
